============================================================
VINFAST OWNER MANUAL (HƯỚNG DẪN SỬ DỤNG SẢN PHẨM XE VINFAST)
Car Model: VF8NP
Version: 2026
Language: EN
Source URL: https://om.vinfastauto.com/
============================================================


# Introduction


## Owner Manual

Introduction
Congratulations and thank you for choosing the VF 8.
This Owner’s Manual describes all the features and operations of your new VinFast vehicle and contains important maintenance and safety related information designed to keep you safe. Information will be updated continuously throughout the customer’s vehicle usage.
The information contained in this manual is specific to your vehicle, but certain features, functions, and display instructions may not be applicable, depending on your market region or the software version of the vehicle.
The content in the manual has the latest update status as of the vehicle’s launch, but due to the optimization and addition of vehicle functions, some interface diagrams or vehicle images may differ from the actual vehicle.
Thoroughly familiarize yourself with the contents of this Owner’s Manual prior to operation of your vehicle.
Owner Manual Version: VF8_MY26_VN_ENG_1.0.1
Owner Manual Information
This Owner Manual will familiarize you with all the features, functions, equipment, and maintenance needs of your vehicle.
An initial overview of the vehicle is covered in the next section and provides relevant operating information, including the name and location of the key exterior and interior features and components.
Warning, Caution and Notes
The Owner’s Manual contains safety precautions and operating procedures. Failure to follow these safety warnings and instructions may lead to serious injury or even death.
To highlight content of importance, the following message formats will be shown:
WARNING
Critical information, often involving safety related content that if not followed could result in death or serious injury.
CAUTION
Important information relating to a feature, function, or situation,which if ignored, could result in damage to your vehicle.
NOTE
Key points of useful information.
It is recommended that you have your vehicle inspected by an authorized service center for all intermediate and major repairs. It is essential that the vehicle is repaired in accordance with VinFast specifications. Owners may perform minor self fix tasks if suggested by this Owner’s Manual or highlighted in vehicle alerts page. For all self-fix tasks, clear instructions will be provided. If the instructions provided are unclear, please contact VinFast service before proceeding.
Using the Quick Reference guide
A printed Quick reference guide is provided with your vehicle and is placed in the glove box at the time of vehicle delivery.
The fastest way to find information on a particular topic is by using the Table of Contents.
Using the Digital Manual
An online interactive version of the owner manual can be accessed on any compatible Web-browser, as well as on the VinFast App. An integrated version of this owner manual is also available to view in vehicle on the Infotainment screen.
To access the Integrated Owner’s Manual in your vehicle, follow the steps below:
Tap “App Library” on the Infotainment screen.
Tap “Owner’s Manual”.
Use Touchscreen and search functionality to locate required content.
NOTE
To update the latest Owner’s Manual, please connect to the Internet, open the Owner’s Manual app, and wait about 5-10 minutes.
Applicable Content & Images
The information and specifications contained in this Owner’s manual are current at the time of publication. However, as part of VinFast’s policy of continuous product improvement, specifications, features, and other information may be changed at any time without prior notice.
This Owner’s manual is intended to provide general guidance for all variants of the VF 8 model. Some features and functions described in this guide may not apply to your vehicle configuration or may not be available or activated at the time your vehicle is delivered. This includes, but is not limited to, applications integrated into the infotainment system and the VinFast app.
The illustrations and images provided in this manual are for demonstration purposes only. Depending on the vehicle’s customization options, software version, and market region, the information displayed on the vehicle’s infotainment screen may differ from the information displayed in the owner’s manual. All directions referenced in the content (such as left, right, front, and rear) are based on the vehicle’s driving direction.
The vehicle’s functions will continue to improve and software updates will be frequently released to improve the user experience and functionality of the vehicle. Any major updates made after the print deadline will be reflected in the digital Owner Manual that can be accessed and viewed at   https://om.vinfastauto.com/
Copyright & Trademarks
All rights reserved. All content within this Owner Manual is subject to copyright and other intellectual property rights of VinFast. This documentation should not be copied, modified, or reused in anyway without prior written permission.
Important Notes
High Voltage Battery System
High-voltage cables are usually orange for easy identification. Do not touch, disassemble, or repair any high-voltage components on your own.
It is recommended to recharge the battery when the State of Charge (SOC) drops below 20%, and to charge it immediately when the SOC falls below 5%. Do not allow the high-voltage battery to become fully discharged (0%), as this may reduce its lifespan and performance.
Battery capacity will still decrease even when the vehicle is not in use. Ensure that the battery level remains above 30% if the vehicle will not be used for more than 2 weeks; the recommended range is 30% to 60%.
It is recommended to charge the battery fully at least once a month.
Vehicle Care
Perform regular maintenance, software updates, and technical updates (if any) as recommended by VinFast to ensure the vehicle remains in optimal condition.
When washing the vehicle, maintain a safe distance between the high-pressure water nozzle and the vehicle surface. Do not spray directly into the charging port, radars, sensors, electronic control units, or high-voltage components.
The vehicle should be inspected immediately after any moderate to severe collision, flood, fire, or other incidents.
Avoid driving through deep water, which may damage the battery or other components.
If towing is required, contact VinFast or a professional towing service. Use a flatbed tow truck to ensure all four wheels are off the ground.
Use of Genuine Parts and Accessories
Replace with genuine parts/accessories. Using non-genuine parts/accessories may affect vehicle safety and performance.
Flood Precautions
It is not recommended to drive in flooded roads or areas.
If it is mandatory to drive through a flooded area, to prevent the vehicle from being damaged, it is necessary to pay attention to the following precautions:
Check water depth before driving through water. The water level should not exceed the vehicle’s ground clearance.
Drive at a low speed (less than 10 km/h). Otherwise, waves may form in front of the vehicle, damage the motor controller and other components, and make the vehicle unable to drive.
Do not park or reverse in water under any conditions.
WARNING
Driving through deep water can damage your electrical motor and the high-voltage battery. This damage is not covered by the warranty.
Other systems like transmission, driving and electrical may also be seriously damaged upon submersion. This damage is not covered by the warranty.
Floodwater at or above the vehicle’s ground clearance can enter the high-voltage system and create serious hazards. Servicing flood-damaged vehicles by unauthorized workshop cannot guarantee, please contact VinFast for support and bring vehicle immediately to VinFast authorized dealers for checking and repair if vehicle is flooded.

# Overview


## Vehicle Overview

Electric Vehicle Overview
Your vehicle is powered by electricity and as a result some of the vehicle’s systems and operating characteristics are different from a vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine.
It is important to carefully review this entire owner’s manual for this reason. The vehicle does not require, and it is not capable of using gasoline like a vehicle powered by a traditional internal combustion engine.
The vehicle uses two types of batteries. One is a 12-volt (low voltage) battery that is the same as the battery in vehicles that operate on gasoline powered engines, the other is the LFP battery which may be referred to as the High Voltage (HV) or Electric Vehicle (EV) battery in this Owner Manual. The 12-volt battery provides power to the vehicle systems and features such as the infotainment system, supplemental restraint systems, headlights, and windshield wipers.
The vehicle uses energy stored in the LFP battery. The vehicle’s LFP battery must be charged with electricity before the vehicle can be driven. As the vehicle operates, the LFP battery gradually discharges. If the LFP battery becomes completely discharged, the vehicle will not operate until it is re-charged.
The high voltage LFP battery or EV Battery provides power to the electric motor that drives the vehicle.  The vehicle must be plugged in to an appropriate charging point for the LFP battery to be charged.
Your vehicle is also equipped with a regenerative braking system which allows the vehicle to convert kinetic energy into electrical energy, which is used to recharge the battery increasing overall range.
This vehicle is considered to be an environmentally friendly vehicle because it does not emit exhaust gases, such as carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxide when in operation.
Exterior Overview
Antenna
Door Handle
Doors >   Exterior Door
Front Wipers
Wipers and Washers >   Front Wipers
Charge Port
Charge Instructions >   Charging Instructions
Wheels and Tires
Wheels and Tires >   Tires
Side Mirrors
Mirrors >   Side Mirrors
Front Camera
Park Assist >   360 Surround View Monitoring
Radar
Driving Assistance >   ACC - Adaptive Cruise Control
Front Parking Sensors
Park Assist >   Front and Rear Parking Assist
Front Combination Lights
Exterior Lighting >   Exterior Lighting - Front
Front Hood
Front and Rear Compartments >   Front Hood
High Brake Lights
Exterior Lighting >   Exterior Lighting - Rear
Rear wiper
Wipers and Washers >   Rear Wipers
Tail Lights
Exterior Lighting >   Exterior Lighting - Rear
Liftgate
Front and Rear Compartments >  L iftgate
Rear Parking Sensors
Park Assist >   Front and Rear Parking Assist
Reflectors
Rear camera
Park Assist >   Rear View Camera
Interior Overview
Buckle Hand
Doors >   Interior Door
Power Window Switches
Windows >   Window Controls
Defrost Vents
Air Vents
Climate Control System >   Air Vents
Light&Wiper lever
Exterior Lighting >   Turn Signals
Driving >   Wipers and Washers
Steering Wheel Switches
Steering Wheel >   Steering Wheel Switches
Gear shift lever
Drive Systems >   Transmission Gear Selector
Touchscreen
Infotainment Screen >   Touchscreen Use
Air Vents
Climate Control System >   Air Vents
Glove Box
Storage >   Glove Box
Door Pocket Storage
Storage >   Door Pocket Storage
Front Cup Holder
Storage >   Cup Holders
Front Storage Box Pad
Storage >   Center Console
Front USB Ports
Phone & Projection >   USB Ports & Power Outlets
Wireless Charger (If equipped)
Phone & Projection >   Wireless Charger
Front Console Armrest
Storage >   Center Console
Seats and Seat Belts
Seats >   Seat Adjustment
Seat Belts >   Seat Belt Use
Sunglass Holder
Sun Visor
Mirrors >   Sun Visor  & Vanity Mirror
Hazard Warning Switch
Exterior Lighting >   Hazard Warning Flashers
SOS (eCall) Button
Services >   Emergency Call (eCall)
Roof Lights
Interior Lighting >   Front dome lamp
Safety Handle
Inside Rear View Mirror
Mirrors >   Rear View Mirror
Rear Reading Lights
Interior Lighting >   Rear Inside Lamp 2nd Row
Safety Handle
Rear Seats and Seat Belts
Seats >   Rear Seat Overview
Seat Belts >   Seat Belt Use
Buckle Hand
Doors >   Interior Door
Rear Power Window Switches
Windows >   Window Controls
Charging Overview
Charging Indicator
Charging Instructions >   Charging Instructions
Charging Port
Charging Gun
Charging Port Door

# Openings & Compartments


## Keys and Locks

Central Locking Overview
The vehicle is equipped with a central locking system, which can be used by passengers inside the vehicle to control the locking/unlocking of all doors. Central locking and unlocking of the vehicle can be accomplished by any of the following:
Vehicle key fob
Keyless entry (Ensure that the smart key is within 1 meter of the driver’s door or the front passenger door.)
Mechanical key
Interior central locking button
Remote locking feature within the VinFast App (if available)
Interior Central Locking button
The central locking button   is located on the driver’s side door. The button will illuminate to indicate the vehicle is locked.
WARNING
When there are children in the vehicle, the central locking system should be used to lock the doors and prevent them from accidentally touching the interior door handles and opening the doors.
CAUTION
To ensure the normal operation of the central locking function, please try to avoid pressing the central locking button multiple times in a short period of time.
Automatic speed lock function
The vehicle is equipped with a Speed Sensing Auto Lock function. When enabled, all doors will automatically lock when the vehicle speed exceeds the configured threshold speed.
You can set the automatic locking function on/off and the locking speed on the Infotainment screen, see >   Settings > Vehicle Settings  .
Collision unlock function
In the locked state of the central locking system, if a serious accident occurs in the vehicle, the doors will automatically unlock, making it convenient for rescue and passengers to quickly exit the vehicle.
Automatic re-lock function
If the doors are unlocked via the remote key or passive entry button but no door is opened within 30 seconds, the vehicle will automatically lock all doors.
Key Fob Overview
Key Fob
The Key Fob is paired with the vehicle and uses Radio Frequency (RF) signals to perform the following vehicle functions:
Remote Lock/Unlock.
Find the car/Panic alarm.
Auto Up/Down power window.
Open/close Power Tailgate.
Starting the vehicle.
No
Key
Action
Function
Panic button
Short Press
Find my car
Long Press
Panic alarm
Lock button
Single Press
Lock four doors and activate the anti-theft
Long Press
Remote control: Raise windows and fold side mirrors (Auto Fold ON)
Tailgate button
Long Press
Open/Close the power tailgate
Unlock button
Single Press
Unlock the driver’s door only or four doors (Depending on the settings), and disarm the anti-theft
Double Press
Unlock four doors
Single press, then press and hold.
Remote control: Lower windows and unfold side mirrors (Auto Fold ON)
For a description of all Key Fob functions, see >   Remote Key Functions  .
WARNING
When exiting the vehicle, the key fob should be taken with the user. If the key fob remains in the vehicle and children are present, they can start the vehicle or operate the windows which can cause serious injuries or even death.
CAUTION
Protect the key from impact, high temperatures, and damage from liquids. Avoid contact with solvents, waxes, and abrasive cleaners.
NOTE
Please ensure that the vehicle is successfully locked before leaving.
If the remote control key does not work, it may be due to the battery running out of power and the battery needs to be replaced.
When using the remote key, please do not be too far away from the vehicle, otherwise the vehicle will not receive the remote key signal.
Key Fob antenna
The vehicle key fob communicates with the vehicle through an RF antenna. Key Fob communication with the vehicle may be impacted by the following:
The Key Fob battery is discharged.
The Key Fob is outside of the vehicle antenna operating range.
Interference caused by signals from powerful radio transmitters, mobile telephone, or electronic devices.
Interference as a result of nearby metallic objects.
WARNING
If a vehicle occupant has a pacemaker or other electrical medical implant/device fitted, they should maintain a safe distance as prescribed by their medical professional from the antennas in the vehicle. This is to avoid any possible interference between the vehicle antenna and the medical implant/device. See approximate vehicle Key Fob antenna locations below.
Using mechanical keys
The mechanical key can be used to unlock the vehicle door when either the key fob battery or the 12V vehicle battery is depleted.
To remove the mechanical key:
Press and hold the mechanical key switch   on the key fob.
Pull the mechanical key   out in the direction of the arrow.
CAUTION
The mechanical key body is relatively small. When not using the mechanical key, please do not remove it randomly to avoid loss.
Key Fob Battery
The battery will slowly deplete over a period of time even if the key is not being used. The following symptoms may exist to indicate that Key Fob battery is low:
There will be no response from the key fob or from the vehicle even though the key fob is within vehicle antenna range.
A vehicle alert will be displayed on the Infotainment screen.
To Replace the key fob Battery:
Remove the mechanical key.
Use a small flat tool to gently open the back cover   of the key fob.
Remove the internal battery cover   by first twisting anti-clockwise and pulling up the cover.
Replace the battery   and ensure the new battery is in the correct orientation (Battery Number: CR2032).
Reinstall the internal battery cover, press down and rotate clockwise to lock.
Reinstall the key fob back cover ensuring it clicks into place.
Insert the mechanical key back into its slot.
WARNING
Please keep the battery out of reach of children. The replaced battery is very small and, if accidentally swallowed, may cause serious injury or even death.
CAUTION
When changing the battery, do not touch any of the circuitry on the remote key. Static from your body could damage the remote key.
Incorrect disposal methods for waste batteries can damage the environment and endanger human health.
Do not crush, cut or burn the battery. Do not expose the batteries to environments wit extremely low air pressures or extremely high temperatures.
NOTE
If the Key Fob is damaged or does not function correctly even after replacing the battery, contact a VinFast Service Center.
Key Fob replacement
In case the key is accidentally lost or damaged, a replacement key will need to be paired with the vehicle. Please contact a VinFast Service Center for assistance.
Remote Key Functions
Vehicle Unlocking/Locking
Lock vehicle: When all doors, tailgate and front hood are closed, single press the lock button   to lock vehicle and activate the anti-theft.
Unlock vehicle: When the vehicle is locked, single press the unlock button   to unlock vehicle and disarm the anti-theft.
Open/Close the tailgate: Long press the tailgate button   to open/close the tailgate.
Find your car: Short press the panic button   can activate the car search function.
Panic alarm function: Long press the panic button   can activate the panic alarm function.
Key controlled window up/down function: When vehicle is in the OFF/ACC state, Single press, then press and hold the unlock button   on the remote key to lower all windows; long press the lock button   on the remote key to raise all windows.
Key controlled mirror fold/unfold function: When the Auto Fold function is ON, long press the unlock button   on the remote key to unfold the side mirrors; long press the lock button   on the remote key to fold the side mirrors.
Passive Entry
The passive entry feature allows the vehicle to be conveniently accessed without using the remote key. After pressing the button on the outside handle of driver’s door or front passenger’s door, the central locking system will verify the presence of valid remote key and will lock or unlock the vehicle.
To lock/unlock the vehicle via Passive Entry Button:
Ensure that you have the key fob with you (within 1m of the driver driver’s door or passenger’s door ). Press the Passive the passive entry button   on the door handle to lock or unlock the doors.
Locking the doors: Press the Passive Lock/Unlock button on either the driver’s door or the front passenger door to lock all doors.
Unlocking from the driver’s door: Press the Passive Lock/Unlock button on the driver’s door. The doors will be unlocked according to the vehicle settings.
Unlocking from the front passenger door: Press the Passive Lock/Unlock button on the front passenger door to unlock all doors.
To open/close the windows using the Passive Entry Button:
Ensure that you have the key fob with you (within 1m of the driver’s door or front passenger’s door ). Long press the passive entry button   to open/close all windows together with central locking or unlocking.
NOTE
For the vehicle to recognize the presence of the remote key and activate the passive functions, the key needs to be within a range of 0.8m to 1m from the driver’s door or passenger’s door.
Lock/Unlock Feedback
When the vehicle is locked or unlocked, it will give a confirmation signal through the off, lights, the horn, or both.
You can set the lock/unlock feedback through the infotainment screen, see >   Settings > Vehicle Settings  .
NOTE
If the lock switch is pressed when any of the doors are not fully closed, the vehicle will not be locked. The turn indicator will not blink indicating that all doors require to be checked to ensure they are correctly closed.
Unlock door options
You can set the unlock the driver door/all door options through the infotainment screen, see >   Settings > Vehicle Settings  .
Remote control window lowering/raising control
When vehicle is in the OFF/ACC state, ingle press, then press and hold the unlock button on the remote key to lower all windows, releasing the unlock button will stop the window lowering action.
When vehicle is in the OFF/ACC state, long press the lock button on the remote key to raise all windows, releasing the lock button will stop the window raising action.
Forgotten key reminder
When the driver door is closed and a key is left in the vehicle, a message will appear on the screen and an audible tone will sound to alert the driver. If the key is left in the vehicle, the doors cannot be locked.
Find your car
When the vehicle is locked and the remote key is within approximately 15m of the vehicle, short press the panic button on the remote key to activate the vehicle horn and turn indicator lights to help locate the vehicle.
When the Find your car function is active, press any button on the remote key again to cancel this function.
Panic alarm
When the vehicle is locked and in a stationary position, long press the panic button on the remote key to activate the panic alarm. The hazard lamps will flash and the horn will sound continuously.
When the panic alarm is active, press any button on the remote key will cancel this function.
Automatic re-lock function
If the door does not open after the vehicle is unlocked, the vehicle will lock again after a period of time.
Mechanical Key
The Mechanical Key is integrated into the vehicle key fob. The mechanical key can be used to unlock the vehicle door manually if the key fob battery or the vehicle’s 12 V battery is discharged.
To remove the mechanical key:
Press and hold the mechanical key switch   on the key fob.
Remove the mechanical key   in the direction of the arrow.
CAUTION
The mechanical key body is relatively small. When not using the mechanical key, please do not remove it randomly to avoid loss.
Unlock the door using the mechanical key:
Pull the driver’s door handle outward to the maximum angle and hold it.
Insert the mechanical key   into the driver’s door lock  .
Rotate clockwise to unlock the door.
NOTE
In the event of a drained 12V battery, use mechanical key to unlock the driver’s door.
If the vehicle is unlocked using the mechanical key while the key fob battery is depleted but the vehicle electrical system is still operating normally, the anti-theft alarm system will be activated. Start the vehicle promptly after unlocking to deactivate the alarm system.
Locking the Door Using the Mechanical Key:
Pull the driver’s door handle outward to the position where the mechanical key can be inserted into the key cylinder, and hold it there. At the same time, push the door inward so that it latches at the first catch position.
Insert the mechanical key   into the driver’s door lock  .
Turn the mechanical key counterclockwise to lock the door.
Remove the mechanical key.
Push the door fully closed to complete the locking operation.
NOTE
If the 12V battery is discharged, only the driver’s door can be locked using the mechanical key.

## Doors

Exterior Door
To open the door using the exterior door handles
Ensure the vehicle is unlocked via the key fob or passive entry button﻿.
Pull the handle outward while also pulling open the door.
NOTE
When the doors are opened, the indicator light for the door opening will be displayed on the infotainment screen.
Passive Entry
The Passive Entry feature allows convenient access to the vehicle without using the remote key buttons. Simply keep the key fob with you and within 1 meter of the driver’s door or passenger’s door. When you press the button on the outside door handle, the central locking system automatically detects the valid key fob and locks or unlocks the vehicle accordingly.
To unlock/unlock the vehicle via Passive Entry Button:
Ensure that you have the key fob with you (within 1m of the driver driver’s door or passenger’s door ). Press the Passive the passive entry button   on the door handle to lock or unlock the doors.
Locking the doors: Press the Passive Lock/Unlock button on either the driver’s door or the front passenger door to lock all doors.
Unlocking from the driver’s door: Press the Passive Lock/Unlock button on the driver’s door. The doors will be unlocked according to the vehicle settings.
Unlocking from the front passenger door: Press the Passive Lock/Unlock button on the front passenger door to unlock all doors.
To open/close the windows using the Passive Entry Button:
Ensure that you have the key fob with you (within 1m of the driver’s door or passenger’s door ). Long press the passive entry button   to open/close all windows together with central locking or unlocking.
WARNING
Ensure that the doors are correctly closed and secure in order to prevent inadvertent or sudden door opening, potentially resulting in an accident that may lead to serious injury or death.
Ensure no objects or body parts extend outside the vehicle while in motion.
Interior Door
Use the inner buckle handle to open the door from the inside. All doors are equipped with buckle handles.
When the vehicle is in locked, pull the inner buckle handle twice in a row to open the door.
When the vehicle is unlocked, pull the inner buckle handle once to open the door.
NOTE
When the doors is opened, the indicator light for the door opening will be displayed on the Infotainment screen.
Child Rear Door Lock
The Child Rear Door Lock prevents the rear doors from being opened from inside the vehicle, enhancing rear occupant and child safety. When this lock is engaged, the rear doors can only be opened by using the exterior door handle.
To activate/ deactivate Child Rear Door Lock:
Open the rear door.
Locate the child lock positioned on inside edge of the rear door.
To activate or deactivate the child lock:
Slide the child lock switch inward in the direction of Arrow  , as illustrated, to activate the child lock.
Slide the child lock switch outward in the direction of Arrow  , as illustrated, to deactivate the child lock.
WARNING
Do not leave children unattended in the vehicle.
Ensure all doors are closed and locked prior to driving.
Always engage the child lock when traveling with children in the rear seats to prevent them from opening the rear doors when the vehicle is in motion, which may result in serious injury or death.
NOTE
The child lock feature does not lock the doors from the outside.

## Front and Rear Compartments

Liftgate
The liftgate is located at the rear of the vehicle, and provides access to the rear cargo compartment. Liftgate opening conditions:
The liftgate is securely closed
The vehicle has sufficient battery
The gear is in Park (P) and the vehicle is stationary
Power Liftgate Operation
The Liftgate can be operated using any of the following methods:
Key Fob
Liftgate control button on Touchscreen
Interior and Exterior Switches
VinFast App (if available)
Emergency Interior Switch
To open/close the Power Liftgate using the key fob:
Long press the liftgate button   on key fob once to open or close the power liftgate.
NOTE
The turn indicator lights flash three times when the tailgate is opened or closed.
To open/close the Power Liftgate using﻿ touchscreen:
Touch targets will appear on Car Control Area if the vehicle is in Park.
Tap to unlock the liftgate lock icon  . Once the liftgate is opened, the icon will change to the liftgate unlock icon  .
To open/close the Power Liftgate via the exterior and interior switches:
The Liftgate can be operated using the liftgate switches present on the exterior and interior of the vehicle.
Press the exterior switch   to open the liftgate.
Press the interior switch   to close the liftgate.
To stop auto liftgate movement:
The power liftgate movement can be stopped using the following methods:
Press the interior liftgate switch.
NOTE
The liftgate is fitted with Anti-Pinch Sensors. If any obstacles are detected while closing the liftgate, it will revert to open position again.
Liftgate Height Adjustment
To adjust height of Power Liftgate:
Open the liftgate fully.
Press and hold the liftgate switch   for 3 seconds until a beep is heard.
Set the liftgate to the desired height.
Press and hold the liftgate switch   again for 3 seconds until beep is heard to confirm the desired height.
Close liftgate with button.
The liftgate will then open to the set position.
WARNING
Do not allow children to operate the liftgate button.
Do not allow passengers to travel in the rear cargo compartment area.
Do not keep the liftgate open, while the vehicle is in motion.
When opening or closing the liftgate, check for any obstacles (pedestrians or objects) around the liftgate to prevent damage to the trunk or objects and pedestrian injury during the opening or closing process.
Do not leave children unattended around an open luggage compartment. They could get inside the luggage compartment and accidentally close the liftgate trapping themselves inside.
In colder regions, remove all the snow which can accumulate before opening the liftgate otherwise liftgate may get closed automatically due to the weight of the snow causing serious injuries.
CAUTION
Ensure that the liftgate is closed properly. When correctly closed, the liftgate should be flush with all surrounding panels.
Emergency Safety Release:
If the electric liftgate switch does not operate, the liftgate can be operated manually from inside the vehicle. The mechanical switch of the liftgate is located on the inside of the vehicle’s liftgate.
Enter the rear space and flatten the backrest of the rear row seats, see >   Seats > Seat Adjustment  .
Remove the inside cover   on the back of the liftgate.
Push and hold the switch, as shown above  . Then push the liftgate to open.
CAUTION
If both the remote key and the vehicle systems are working properly, but the liftgate can only be opened manually (Emergency Safety Release), there may be a malfunction in the liftgate system. Please visit a VinFast Service Center to have your vehicle inspected.
Front Hood
The hood provides access to the﻿ 12V battery, front compartment fuse box, and fluid/coolant reservoirs. See >   Fluids, Lubricants and Parts > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts Overview  .
To open the front hood
Pull the front hood release handle   under the driver’s dashboard twice to release the hood latch.
Stand in front of the vehicle and lift the hood to its fully open position.
Remove the support rod   from the clip and insert it into the designated hole on the hood, making sure it is securely and correctly positioned.
WARNING
Ensure that the area near the hood is clear of obstacles before opening.
Make sure the hood support rod is properly positioned and securely fixed into the designated hole to prevent the hood from falling, which could result in serious injury or even death.
Do not drive the vehicle with the hood raised or not fully latched. This can block your vision and cause accident.
Always close the hood completely and securely before driving the vehicle.
To close the front hood
Lift the hood slightly, remove the support rod from the designated hole, and secure it in the retaining clip.
Lower the hood slowly until the first position of the lock is engaged.
Push down on the hood to engage the second stage lock.
CAUTION
Do not install accessories other than original VinFast products on the hood. This may increase the weight of the hood and cause the hood support to fail.
Ensure that the area near the hood is clear of obstacles before closing. To prevent damage:
• Do not apply excessive force when closing.
• To prevent dents caused by concentrated force in one area, close the hood using both hands.
• To prevent the possibility of creasing do not apply excessive pressure to the front edge of the hood.
• To avoid scratches, make sure your hands are empty while closing hood.

## Windows

Window Controls
The vehicle windows can be controlled using the window switches, which are located on the driver’s side door and the passenger side doors.
Driver’s Side Door:
Driver Window Switch
Front Passenger Window Switch
Rear Right Passenger Window Switch
Rear Left Passenger Window Switch
Passenger’s Side Door:
To open and close the windows:
Locate the window control switch on the driver’s side front door or passenger side doors.
Slightly push the switch forward to open the window.
Slightly pull the switch backward to close the window.
Release the switch at any time to stop window travel﻿.
Auto-Opening/Closing (Express Mode)﻿:
To fully open the window automatically, push the window switch forward completely and release it, the power window will open until the window reaches the lowest position.
To fully close the window automatically, pull the window switch backward completely and release it, the power window will close until the window reaches the highest position.
WARNING
Before closing a power window, ensure that all occupants, especially children, do not have any body parts extended through the window opening. Failure to do so could cause serious injury.
While closing the window, check for obstructions like a head, hand, etc., Which may lead to personal injuries.
For safety reasons, always switch on the safety lock, it can prevent children from accidentally using the power windows. Do not allow children to play with the power windows.
CAUTION
To avoid electrical overheating of the switch, window operation is temporarily disabled if the windows are repeatedly operated in a short period of time.
Avoid tinting the window glass as a tinted window can affect visibility of rear-view mirrors.
NOTE
The driver’s side window control switches have the main priority over the other passenger window switches.
Do not open or close two windows or more at the same time to prevent possible damage to the power window system. This will also ensure long life of the fuse.
Initialize Windows:
If the windows cannot be closed automatically via the express function (e.g. after disconnecting the vehicle 12V battery or after replacing the Anti-Pinch Module fuse), the windows may need to be re-initialized.
Preconditions:
Vehicle is in: ACC, ON (Driver present)
Gear is P
Vehicle speed less than 3 km/h
To re-initialize windows:
Operate switch to raise windows to the top position.
Operate switch to raise windows again, causing the windows to stall upwards at the top position for a duration of 2 seconds.
Operate switch to lower windows to bottom position.
Operate switch to raise windows to top position.
NOTE
Steps in above mentioned procedure should be successfully completed in a single attempt. In case of any interruption, repeat the procedure from the beginning.
Remote control window lowering/lifting control
The windows may also be opened via the Key Fob, See >   Remote Key Functions  .
Safety Functions
Child Window Lockout
The child window lockout prevents passengers from operating the windows by disabling the window control switches on the front and rear passenger seats. This feature helps improve safety by preventing accidental window operation and reducing the risk of injury while the vehicle is in motion.
WARNING
Always activate the child window lockout to prevent children from opening the front and rear windows and reduce the risk of falling out of the vehicle.
To activate/deactivate the Child Window Lockout:
The child window lockout button is located on the Driver View area of the Infotainment screen. When activated, the front passenger and rear passenger power window switches are disabled and cannot be operated from the passenger seats.
Tap the window lock button  , the power window will be locked.
Tap the window unlock button  , the power window will be unlocked.
NOTE
Ensure the child window lockout is enabled by checking the function using the front passenger and rear passenger power window switches.
Anti-Pinch Safety Function
If an obstacle is detected while the window is closing, the window will automatically stop and move down slightly.
If the window detects an obstacle repeatedly while closing, the Express Window Up function will be disabled. Users need to move the window to the fully closed position manually to restore the automatic function.
Express Window UP function will not function if the anti-pinch function is detected multiple times. Complete the window initialization process to regain the express window function. See >   Windows > Window Controls  .
Overload Protection
To avoid electrical overload, the window operation is disabled for a short period of time if the switch is repeatedly operated at short intervals.

## Storage

Glove Box
The vehicle glove box is located under the dashboard on the passenger side.
To open the glove box:
Press the glove box unlock switch to open the glove box.
To close the glove box:
Push back the glove box gently  until it lock.
WARNING
Do not put heavy or sharp objects in the glove box. In an accident, these objects may cause the glove box to open and could result in serious injury.
Never leave the glove box door open. A passenger may suffer serious injuries due to an open glove box door in the event of an accident.
Ensure that glove box is closed while driving.
Center Console
The center console is located between the two front seats and includes an armrest and a central storage compartment.
Armrest
The armrest is an integral part of the center console and is located between the two front seats, providing additional comfort to both the driver and the passenger.
Center Console Storage
The center console has storage areas where items can be placed or stored.
With wireless charger:
Without wireless charger:
Pull the armrest upwards to open.
WARNING
Do not store flammable materials in the vehicle.
Do not place hard or sharp objects in any storage compartment. In the event of an accident or sudden braking, such objects may be thrown from the compartment, resulting in personal injury.
Door Pocket Storage
Door pocket storage areas are provided in both front doors   and rear doors  , and may be used to store bottles and other small personal items.
Ensure that the items stored inside the door pockets fit properly in the compartment. If bottles or other items are too large for the door pockets, store them in another safe location, such as the rear cargo compartment.
WARNING
Do not store any sharp objects inside any door pocket as they may become loose and fall out of the pocket while the vehicle is in motion, leading to situations that may cause serious injury or death.
Do not store glass items in door pockets. Such items may break while driving and may cause serious injuries to passengers.
Ensure that the bottle cap is fully tightened when storing bottles in door pockets.
Cup Holders
Front cup holders
The front cup holders are located in between the front seats, in the center console.
Rear cup holders
The rear cup holders are located in the arm rest of the rear seats.
To access rear cup holders, follow the steps below:
Pull down the strap   at the top of the arm rest to release the rear arm rest.
Push the rear arm rest down until fully opened.
Ensure that the items stored inside the cup holders fit properly in the compartment. If bottles or other items are too large for the cup holders, store them in another safe location, such as the rear cargo compartment.
WARNING
Do not put anything other than cups, beverage cans or the vehicle key in the cup holder, in the event of an accident or emergency braking, such items maybe thrown out of the cup holder, resulting in personal injury.
In the event of an accident or emergency braking, such items maybe thrown out of the cup holder, resulting in personal injury. If there are hot drinks, please tighten the cover tightly to avoid scalding.
Front Cargo Compartment (if equipped)
If equipped, the cargo compartment is located at the front of the vehicle under the hood. The front cargo compartment provides storage for smaller pieces of luggage and provides access to maintenance items.
To access the Front Cargo Compartment:
See >   Front and Rear Compartments > Front Hood  .
12V Battery
Brake Fluid
Washer Fluid
WARNING
Under no circumstances should people climb inside the luggage compartment. Never close the luggage compartment when someone is inside it.
Be sure to lock the vehicle doors and cargo compartments, and keep the key fob out of reach of children, to avoid children getting locked in the vehicle.
CAUTION
Do not leave the front cargo compartment open while driving. Doing so could cause damage to the luggage compartment and its components.
Rear Cargo Compartment
The rear cargo compartment provides storage for luggage or objects that need to be stored securely including the vehicle tools, the vehicle tools are located under the cargo floor.
To remove the cargo floor, pull up on the strap.
WARNING
Never leave your vehicle unattended, especially if the liftgate is open. Children may enter the luggage compartment and close the Liftgate from the inside. Children may get trapped inside which can result in injury or death.
Do not allow small children to play in the vehicle. When you leave the vehicle, close and lock the liftgate as well as all other doors.
CAUTION
When storing liquid items, ensure it is sealed properly and stored. Incase of liquid leakage causes damage to the vehicle. If there is a leak, please clean it up in a timely manner.
Parcel Shelf (if equipped)
The vehicle may fitted with a rear parcel shelf located behind the back seats. The parcel shelf provides a barrier between the objects placed in rear cargo compartment and the cabin area and reduces noise in the cabin.
To Remove the Parcel Shelf:
Remove the drawstrings   on both sides of the parcel shelf.
Remove from the locator by pushing the parcel shelf in an upward direction  .
To Install the Parcel Shelf:
Lift the parcel shelf and align the locating tabs with the grooves in the parcel shelf.
Push the shelf in downward direction   on both sides of the parcel shelf.
Attach the two drawstrings of the parcel shelf to either sides.
WARNING
Do not store any objects on the parcel shelf. In the event of sudden braking, maneuvering, or an accident, objects may become loose and cause injury to occupants. An unsecured parcel shelf may also strike occupants. Store the parcel shelf securely or remove it from the vehicle.
CAUTION
The parcel shelf is not designed to bear heavy loads, do not apply excessive force while installing or removing the parcel shelf. Using excessive force can break or damage the parcel shelf.
Spare Tire and Tools (if equipped)
The spare tire (if equipped) is located in the rear cargo compartment. To know more about spare tire and details on how to change a tire, see >   Vehicle Recovery > Vehicle Jack & Tire Repair  .
Tool box is located under the cargo floor in the rear cargo compartment. Used to store vehicle towing hook and some vehicle maintenance tools needed.
Seatback Pocket
Seatback pocket storage areas are provided in both first-row seats and may be used to store maps, magazines, booklets or thin books, etc.
Ensure that the items stored inside the seatback pockets fit properly in the compartment. If items are too large for the seatback pockets, store them in another safe location, such as the rear cargo compartment.
CAUTION
The seatback pockets of two seats in the first row are designed to keep thin books, magazines, maps or booklets, etc. They are not intended to keep water bottles, cups, handbags, etc. Failure to comply can lead to seatback pockets damages.

## Vehicle Security

Theft Alarm
The theft alarm system helps to protect the vehicle and its contents from break in. When activated the system will emit both an audible and visual alert using the vehicle horn, turn signals.
Once the theft alarm system is activated, it will continuously monitor the status of the vehicle’s door locks. When it is detected that the correct remote key has not been used to open the door/liftgate, the theft alarm system will be triggered.
If the theft system malfunction indicator light on the central control screen lights up, the vehicle cannot activate the theft alarm system normally. Please contact the VinFast service center in a timely manner.
The vehicle thief alert will trigger in following situations:
When vehicle anti-theft is activated, any of the front or rear doors are illegally opened.
When vehicle anti-theft is activated, liftgate or hood is illegally opened.
If the vehicle location is different from the saved location.
When the anti-theft alarm has been triggered, the vehicle horn will sound and the turn indicators will flash.
Theft Alert Operation
To activate the theft alert:
The theft alert system is activated when the vehicle is successfully locked and all doors, hood, and liftgate are properly closed.
NOTE
When all vehicle doors, hood and liftgate are closed, locking the vehicle can activate the anti-theft alarm.
To change the alert type:
You can set the type of anti-theft alarm through the infotainment screen, see >   Settings > Security Settings  .
ON duration:
The anti-theft alarm will activate for 28 seconds, pause for 10 seconds, repeat this cycle 10 times, and then stop completely. The turn indicators and horn will be active for the same period.
GPS Monitoring
When GPS Monitoring is enabled and the vehicle is in Secured state, the system periodically checks vehicle location. If the vehicle is moved unexpectedly, the theft alarm may be triggered. This feature will be deactivated on the next start.
To turn ON/OFF GPS monitoring system:
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap Settings   > Security Settings   > Theft Alert.
Toggle ON/OFF on GPS Monitoring.
Deactivating the Theft alarm system
You can use any of the following methods to disarm the anti-theft alarm:
Unlock/Lock the vehicle again by the remote key.
Unlock/Lock the vehicle again by the passive entry button (with a valid remote key around).
Open tailgate by the tailgate button on the remote key or the tailgate exterior button (with a valid remote key around).
Press the panic button on the remote key.
Start the vehicle with a valid remote key inside the vehicle.
NOTE
If the key fob battery is completely discharged, then the alarm will not be deactivated by pressing the key fob Unlock button. To disable the alarm when the key fob battery is discharged, place the key in the center console armrest box area (emergency start area), see >   Starting & Shutting Down Vehicle > Starting the Vehicle  .
Some anti-theft functions require a valid remote key to be detected near or inside the vehicle.
Immobilizer
The immobilizer is an electronic security device that prevents the vehicle from being started with an invalid or incorrect key fob. The immobilizer functions automatically without the need for manual activation or intervention.
Vehicle Immobilizer Operation
The immobilizer is automatically activated when the vehicle is in OFF state.
Each key provided with the vehicle is equipped with a specific coding responder. Only with the correctly encoded key can the vehicle be started. The immobilizer indicator will be displayed briefly on the infotainment screen when starting the vehicle. If the immobilizer system recognizes the key fob correctly, the indicator light will turn off.
If however the system does not recognize the coding of the key fob, the indicator light will flash. This may prevent the vehicle from starting. If this occurs please ensure you have the correct key fob in the vehicle, remove any metal objects around the key which can cause interference. If this repeatedly occurs and inhibits the vehicle from starting, it is recommend to contact a VinFast Service Center.
WARNING
The vehicle has anti-theft function, but it cannot prevent all theft activities and cannot guarantee the absolute safety of the vehicle.
Do not tamper with electrical devices in the vehicle as this can cause terminal vehicle issues.
NOTE
If there is electromagnetic interference around the vehicle, such as power plants, signal towers, etc., it may cause the anti-theft system to malfunction.
If the infotainment screen displays indicative information about the anti-theft system malfunction, it indicates that there is a malfunction in the anti-theft system. Please contact the VinFast Service Center in a timely manner.

# Seats, Restraints & Safety


## Seats

Front Seat Overview
A correct seating position is very important to ensure the safety of the driver and passengers. Follow these recommendations for proper seating positions:
Please follow all seating guidelines to ensure optimum protection during an accident. Seats, headrests, seat belts, and airbags work together to ensure occupant safety.
Before driving the vehicle, it is necessary to adjust the seat to the correct position to ensure optimal protection in the event of an accident. The seat, headrest, seat belt, and driver airbag work together to ensure the overall safety of driver and passengers.
WARNING
Do not adjust the driver’s seat while the vehicle is moving. Adjusting the driver’s seat while the vehicle is in motion may cause loss of vehicle control and may lead to an accident resulting in serious injury or death. Always adjust the driver’s seat only when the vehicle is stationary.
Ensure to maintain the safety distance from the steering wheel and airbag when adjusting the seat.
NOTE
Ensure to sit in the correct seating position to ensure optimum driving comfort, see >   Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions  .
Use of a seat belt is mandatory for the entire duration of the journey.
Rear Seat Overview
Please follow all seating guidelines to ensure optimal protection during an accident. Seats, headrests, seat belts, and airbags work together to ensure passenger safety.
NOTE
Ensure to sit in the correct seating position to ensure optimum driving comfort, see >   Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions  .
Use of a seat belt is mandatory for the entire duration of the journey.
The rear seats are designed in a 60-40 configuration. The rear seats can be folded individually or together to increase cargo capacity when needed, see >   Seat Adjustment  .
The rear ﻿center seat also contains an integrated armrest along with two cup holders, see >   Cup holders  .
Seat Adjustment
The vehicle is fitted with a driver’s seat and four passenger seats. Properly adjusting the seats helps maximize occupant safety while driving.
WARNING
Under no circumstances should the vehicle have more occupants than the total seats. Traveling with an excessive number of passengers is dangerous to all occupants, even to those who may be safely restrained.
During vehicle operation, it is prohibited to adjust the driver’s seat, otherwise danger may occur.
Sitting in a fully reclined position when the vehicle is in motion can be dangerous and reduces the effectiveness of vehicle safety systems. This increases the chance of serious or fatal injuries in the event of a collision or sudden stop.
All occupants in a moving vehicle must keep the seat backs upright and fasten the seat belts at all times.
Ensure to keep fingers clear of moving seat components while adjusting to avoid risk of injury.
The driver and front passenger should sit as far rearward as possible to reduce risk of injury from a deploying airbag.
Do not put any luggage, loose items or pets on the front passenger seat.
Do not adjust the seats while driving as this may lead to an accident and cause serious injury.
Do not allow children to play inside the vehicle when the rear seats are folded as this may lead to serious injury.
Make sure hands, fingers, feet or other body parts are kept clear of the seat folding mechanism while adjusting or folding the rear seat.
Ensure each rear seat backrest is locked securely in position to ensure the backrest does not move during sudden braking or during an accident.
Do not put any heavy or unsecured luggage on the rear seats or inside the passenger compartment.
When returning a seat backrest back to its upright position, make sure it is firmly locked.
Driver Seat Adjustment (6-way power)
Forward/Rearward Adjustment:
Slide the adjustment button   forward or rearward to adjust the seat to the desired position.
Seat cushion high/low adjustment
Pull/push the rear section of the adjustment button   upward or downward to adjust the seat cushion up/down.
Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment
Pull/ push the button   forward or backward to tilt the seat back forward or backward.
Front Passenger Seat Adjustment (4-way manual)
Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment
Lift the backrest adjustment lever  , move the seat back to the desired position, and then release the adjustment lever to lock the seat back in place.
Forward/Rearward Adjustment:
Pull up the lever   to adjust the seat to the desired position. Release the lever to lock the seat in place.
Rear Seat Adjustment
Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment
Lift the backrest adjustment lever   at the side of each outboard seating position, move the seat back to the desired position, and then release the adjustment lever to lock the seat back in place.
Rear Seat Folding (6/4)
The backrest of the rear seats is in a 4/6 ratio, and both parts can be folded separately.
Folding the Rear Seat:
Pull the adjustment lever   on the side of the outboard seat and then rotate the seat back downward.
Unfolding the Rear Seat:
Pull the adjustment lever   and simultaneously pull the seat upward until locked in position.
CAUTION
When returning the rear seat backrests to the upright position, ensure that the seat belt is not caught behind the seat.
Before adjusting the rear seat backrests the vehicle should be parked on level ground with the parking brake applied.
Do not put heavy items on the seats when they are folded as they may damage the folding mechanism.
Headrest Adjustment
Rear Headrest Adjustment
Upward adjustment : Lift the headrest upward to adjust it to the appropriate position.
Downward adjustment : Press and hold the lock button on the right side of the headrest, then push the headrest downward to adjust it to the appropriate position.
NOTE
After releasing the headrest adjustment button, press the headrest down again to ensure that it is locked in place.
Memory Seat (if equipped)
The memory seat feature saves the preferred seat adjustment to a user profile. When a driver starts the vehicle and a profile is loaded, the memorized seat position will automatically adjust to it’s previously saved location.
NOTE
Memory seat function is applicable only for the driver seat and the front passenger seat.
To save/delete a seat position to memory/profile for the first time:
Adjust the seat to your desired position.
Tap Profile Name > My Profile > Profile Settings > Personalization.
Tap  Save New  /  Delete .
To recall a memorized seat position:
When the driver loads his/her profile:
The seat position will be automatically recalled to the saved position.
To change a memorized seat position:
The driver can reset or change a seat position after saving it to the profile. To save a new seat position:
Adjust the seat to the desired position and a notification will pop-up on screen.
Tap  Save to profile  and the new seat position will be saved to the active profile.
WARNING
Ensure the driver’s seating position is adjusted prior to driving. An incorrect seating position may impact both driving comfort and the ability for the driver to control the vehicle.
Check seat surroundings before adjusting seat position to avoid injury to other passengers or damaging the seat.
Seat Ventilation (if equipped)
The vehicle may be equipped with ventilated seats for both the front and the rear passengers.
The ventilation can be controlled by the climate control interface on the Infotainment screen. See >   Climate Controls  .
Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions
A correct seating position is very important to ensure safety to driver and passengers. Follow these recommendations for proper seating positions:
The driver and passengers feet must be on the floor.
The driver and passenger should not slide forward on the seat.
The driver and the front passenger should maintain a distance of from the steering wheel or the dashboard.
The backrest must be in an upright position and the occupants back should be resting against it.
The backrest should not be reclined to a laying down position when the vehicle is in motion.
Ensure that all occupants are sitting at the ﻿center of each designated seat. Sitting in a haphazard manner (offset from the seat ﻿center, sideways, etc.) may cause fatal injury in the event of an accident.
Children should not lean against the dashboard area.
The driver’s arm should be just slightly bent (around 120 degrees).
All occupants of the vehicle must wear seat belts when the car is in motion for the entire duration of the journey.
Examples of incorrect seating position:
Example of correct seating position:

## Seat Belts

Seat Belt Use
Wearing seat belts correctly in the event of a collision can reduce personal injury and protect the head neck and chest of drivers and passengers from injury.
WARNING
Each seat belt is only allowed for one person to use, and it is not allowed for multiple people (including children) to share the same seat belt.
Do not change, disassemble or install equipment that may change the direction or tension of the seat belt.
After any collision, the vehicle should contact the VinFast Service Center to check the seat belt system. Even if the seat belt does not appear to be damaged, some of its internal protective functions may no longer operate. If the seat belt is found to be damaged or running abnormally, it must be replaced.
Introduction and use of seat belt types
The vehicle is equipped with three-point seat belts for all seating positions. The front seats and the two outboard rear seating positions are fitted with shoulder belt pretensioners and emergency locking retractor (ELR). The front seats are also equipped with a pyrotechnic lap pretensioner (PLP). The rear center seating position is fitted with an emergency locking retractor (ELR) only and is not equipped with a pretensioner.
When a vehicle experiences a serious frontal collision, the pre-tensioner works together with the airbag, automatically retracting the seat belt, eliminating the slack in the seat belt, thereby reducing forward movement of passengers.
When the seat belt tensioner is triggered, it will release a small amount of dust (smoke) and may make a loud noise. This is a normal phenomenon and will not cause a fire. The smoke and dust generated during prolonged exposure to the detonation of the tensioner may cause skin or eye discomfort.
When a passenger experiences forward movement that causes the seat belt to reach a certain tension, if the front seat belt tensioners are triggered, the force applied to the diagonal section of the seatbelt will be limited in order to help reduce the chest compression injury.
WARNING
Once the seat belt tensioner is activated, it must be replaced.
If the seat belt has burrs, contamination, or damage, it must be replaced in a timely manner.
Correct seating position
A correct seating position is very important to ensure the driver’s and passenger’s safety. Follow all recommended seating guidelines to minimize the chances of injury in the event of an accident.
For more information, see >   Seats > Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions  .
WARNING
If the occupants of the front seats are close to the steering wheel or Infotainment display, the airbag system may not provide optimal protection, which increases the risk of injury or death.
To fasten a seat belt:
Latch Plate
Buckle
Ensure a correct seating position.
Advance the seat belt from its retracted position. Make sure that the belt is not twisted and lays flat across the occupant’s body (shoulders, torso, and pelvic region), as shown  .
Insert the latch plate into the buckle  , to make sure that the latch plate clicks in to locked condition.
Pull the seat belt to check that it is fastened securely.
Pull the diagonal part of the seat belt over the occupant’s torso and shoulders towards the retractor to remove any excess slack  .
WARNING
Inadequately positioned seat belts may increase the risk of serious injury in an accident. To avoid wearing the seat belt incorrectly, occupants must always sit in the correct seating position; place one arm under the shoulder belt and the other over the shoulder belt (ensure that the shoulder belt is not against your neck or face) and place the lap belt across the hip (as low as possible), not across the waist.
Ensure that the seat belt fits the body snugly and the belt is not twisted and the latch plate is locked properly into the buckle.
Do not place other items between the seat belt and the body.
Do not use a fake seat belt tongue.
Please keep the seat belt buckle clean and promptly remove any foreign objects inside the buckle. If you are unsure how to proceed, please contact the VinFast Service Center.
To unfasten the seat belt:
Grasp the seat belt latch   to prevent rapid retraction of the seat belt after it is released, which may cause injury to passengers or damage to the vehicle.
Press the “red” seat belt buckle button   to unlock the seat belt. When not in use, place the seat belt properly.
If the seat belt is not fully retracted, manually retract it and do not leave the seat belt in a loose and hanging state.
Testing Seat Belts
Make sure each seat belt operates correctly by performing these three simple checks.
After fastening the seat belt, pull the seat belt upwards to ensure that the seat belt buckle can securely lock the seat belt latch.
Unroll the webbing to the limit with the belt unfastened. Make sure that the unreeling is free from snags and that the webbing is in good condition. Check that the webbing retracts smoothly and completely.
Grasp the seat belt latch and quickly pull the seat belt forward. It should automatically lock and prevent further pulling out.
If a seat belt fails any of these tests, contact a VinFast Service Center immediately.
Wearing a Seatbelt while Pregnant
Pregnant women must wear their seat belts correctly when riding in vehicles, which is crucial.
The seat belt must be worn comfortably, and the waist belt should be pulled down as much as possible to wrap around the lower part of the waist instead of the waist. The shoulder belt should pass through the shoulders and chest, and the shoulder belt or waist belt of the seat belt should not pass through the abdomen. Please consult a doctor for specific guidance.
WARNING
Pregnant women should avoid using seat belts that touch the raised abdomen. The waist belt should be flat against the thighs and placed as low as possible below the abdomen.
Do not wear twisted seat belts. Excessive forces will be transferred from the belt to the occupant in a collision, resulting in serious personal injury.
Seat belt Warning Indicator
Driver and Passenger seatbelt status:
The seat belt warning system is used to remind passengers inside the car to fasten their respective seat belts before driving.
When a seat is occupied and the corresponding seat belt is not fastened, the seat belt warning light   will illuminate on the Infotainment screen.
When the vehicle is started or the speed is less than 15km/h, and there are passengers who have not fastened their seat belts, the infotainment screen will light up a visual warning icon; When the vehicle reaches a speed of 15km/h or more, the seat belt warning system will also emit an audible warning signal and the visual warning icon will blink. After the alarm lasts for 95 seconds, the warning sound will automatically disappear and the visual warning icon will stop blinking but remain lit until you fasten your seat belt.
The reminder device alerts passengers through the following methods:
The seat belt unfastened icon on the infotainment screen.
Sound reminder signal.
WARNING
Seat belts must be used by all occupants whenever the vehicle is moving. Not wearing seat belts may result in serious injury or death.
Do not unfasten a seat belt while driving for any reason. Failure to follow this warning could result in serious personal injury or death, in case of accident.
If a seat belt is damaged or the retractor mechanism is not working properly, get the parts replaced by VinFast Service Center. Using a damaged seat belt is very dangerous and may result in serious personal injury or death.
Do not modify or tamper with the seat belt or its mechanism as it may lead to failure of the system. Using a seat belt with damaged component is very dangerous and may cause serious injury or death.
Do not latch the seat belt into the buckles of other seats. Seat belts are designed to function effectively only when the latch plate of a particular seat belt is locked into its paired buckle. Failure to follow this warning could result in serious personal injury or death.
Do not wear the shoulder belt under your arm or behind your back. Doing so is unsafe and may result in serious personal injury or death.
Do not wear the seat belt with any part of the strap twisted. A twisted seat belt will not function properly in an accident and could result in serious personal injury or death.
Multiple people should not use a single seat belt. Seat belts are designed to protect a single occupant occupying a particular seat where it is mounted/attached.
Make sure there is nothing in the buckle interfering seat belt’s latch plate. This may prevent the seat belt from fastening securely. Failure to follow this warning could result in serious personal injury or death.
CAUTION
Do not wear a seat belt over fragile, hard, or sharp objects. This can damage the objects or seat belt.
Seat Belt Care
A seat belt is a critical component within the vehicle occupant protection system. Proper care must be taken to ensure that they function effectively in the event of an accident or a collision.
Do not use defective or damaged seat belts. Please visit the nearest VinFast service center as soon as possible to check your seat belt.
Recommendations for seat belt care:
Ensure that the seat belt is not damaged or clamped by sharp objects.
Always keep the seat belt retractor clean and free of dust.
Avoid contamination of the seat belt webbing by polish, oil, chemicals, and particularly battery acid.
Seat belts can be cleaned lightly using mild, non-abrasive soap and lukewarm water. After washing, clean the seat belts thoroughly. Do not allow the belts to retract until they are completely dry.
Regularly inspect the seatbelt webbing for contamination, damage, or fraying.
Do not bleach or dye the webbing because this may weaken the seat belt.
Do not insert any foreign items such as coins, clips, etc., into the seat belt buckles. If foreign materials get into a seat belt buckle, the seat belt may not work properly.
WARNING
Do not disassemble, modify, or tamper with the seat belt system, as it may affect the seat belt performance.
In case of accident, a seat belt system may not provide adequate protection.
CAUTION
Do not use bleach, strong detergents, or an abrasive brush or cloth to clean the seatbelt as it may damage and weaken the fabric.
Do not use steamers, brushes with hard bristles, hard sponges etc to clean the seats as this can damage the seats.

## Child Restraint Systems

Child Restraint Systems Overview
The seat belts fitted in the vehicle are designed to fit and secure adults and older children. Small children and infants must be secured in a certified Child Restraint System (CRS) suitable for their age, height, and weight, and for the seat position of choice. Not all CRS are safe to use in all seat positions.
When installing a Child Restraint System (CRS), use the following seating positions in order of preference: the outboard seats in the second row, followed by the center seat in the second row. The front passenger seat should only be used when absolutely necessary and only where permitted by the laws and regulations of the country or region in which the vehicle is operated.
Most countries will have laws and regulations which stipulate children need to travel in an approved child restraint system. Please be aware of the requirements in the country where the vehicle is driven.
Before installing a child safety seat on the front passenger seat, it is necessary to disable the front passenger airbag. The front passenger airbag can be disabled through the button on the infotainment screen. Notification via the   icon is displayed on the infotainment screen.
To Turn Off Front Passenger Airbag:
Swipe down from the top status bar of the infotainment screen to open the notification center, then tap the   button to turn off the front passenger airbag. A confirmation message will appear. Read the message content and confirm or cancel.
WARNING
Children should always be properly restrained in the rear seats of the vehicle.
In an exceptional circumstance, ensure Passenger Airbag OFF   when a child restraint system seat must be secured in the front passenger seat.
Children who are resting against, or very close to an airbag when it inflates can be seriously injured or killed.
Do not modify the child restraint system in any way.
An incorrectly secured child restraint system may cause serious or fatal injury to the child in the event of an accident. Always follow the manufacturer’s instructions to ensure the correct fitment of a child restraint system.
Do not use a child restraint system to secure more than one child.
Always ensure that a child is properly secured at all times. Failure to do so may result in the child being propelled from the child restraint system risking serious or fatal injuries.
Never hold an infant or child while riding in a vehicle.
Before installing a child restraint system, ensure that the seat backrest is in an upright position and locked.
Never leave children unattended in the vehicle, even if they are secured in a child restraint system.
A seat belt or a child restraint system may become hot when exposed to sunlight. Take care before fastening a child to avoid burns.
Laws and regulations that govern how children should be restrained in a vehicle are subject to change. Therefore, it is the driver’s responsibility to be familiar and comply with regulations of the region where the vehicle is driven.
The image below identifies where child restraint systems can be fitted in the vehicle. Please read all the information in the following section to identify the correct type and orientation when securing children in the vehicle.
NOTE
Regulations regarding the installation position of child seats may vary depending on the market, region, or country where the vehicle is operated. Please always comply with local laws and safety regulations.
Types of Child Restraint Systems:
There are three types of child restraints systems suitable for fitment to your vehicle categorized by their orientation and/or design:
Rear Facing
Forward Facing
Booster Seat
Each of these restraint types may be mounted using one of the following fixture methods:
Belted-secured via the vehicle’s seat belt
ISOFIX / i-Size - secured via anchor points built into the vehicle’s seat frame.
A summary of both restraint and fixture methods is summarized below:
Rearward Facing Child Restraint System:
Rearward facing child restraint systems are designed so the child is facing towards the rear of the vehicle when driving. They give the best support and protection to a child’s head and neck in the event of a collision. All children below the age of one should be seated in a rearward facing child restraint system. Continue to use a rearward-facing child restraint system for as long as a child fits within the height and weight limits permitted by the child restraint system manufacturer.
Forward Facing Child Restraint System:
Forward facing child restraint systems are designed so the child is facing towards the front of the vehicle when driving. In a forward-facing child restraint seat, a three point harness incorporated in child restraint system secures the child. Keep a child in a forward-facing child restraint system until they reach the height or weight limit permitted by the restraint system manufacturer. Once a child exceeds the recommended height and weight of a forward-facing child restraint system a booster seat is recommended.
Booster Seats Child Restraint System:
A booster seat child restraint system is used when a child exceeds the height or weight limit of a forward-facing child restraint system. Booster seats are designed to work in conjunction with the vehicle’s existing seat belt system. A booster seat positions a child’s body to ensure correct routing of a seat belt across the shoulder and lap areas, avoiding contact with the face, neck, and stomach.
A child should remain in a booster seat until they exceed restraint system recommendations.
WARNING
Always read and follow the instructions provided by the manufacturer of the Child Restraint System.
Failure to follow all warnings and instructions could increase the risk of the serious injury or death if an accident occurs.
Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with only the lap strap of the seat belt.
Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with a seat belt that is slack or twisted.
Do not put the safety seat belt under a child’s arm or behind their back.
Do not use pillows, books or towels to boost a child’s height.
Compatible Child Restraint Systems – Belted Type
Permissible Options for Fitting a Belted Child Restraint System:
Weight and Age class
Seating position
Front passenger seat
(Airbag ON)
Front passenger seat
(Airbag OFF)
Rear outboard seats
Rear ﻿ center seat
Group 0+: up to 13kg
X
U*
U
U(f)
Group I: 9 to 18kg
X
U*
U
U(f)
Group II: 15 to 25kg
X
U*
U
U
Group III: 22 to 36kg
X
U*
U
U
X: No child restraint system permitted in this position.
U: Seat suitable for the installation of a child seat secured using the seat belt and universally approved for rearward facing and/or forward facing use.
U(f): A child seat with support leg must never be installed on this seat.
U*: As for U, straightening the backrest and not applicable for rearward facing.
Compatible Child Restraint Systems – i-Size Type / ISOFIX
Permissible Options for Installing an i-Size Child Restraint System:
Front passenger seat
Rear outboard seats
Rear center seat
i-Size child-restraint systems
X
i-U
X
i-U: Suitable for i-size “universal” child restraint systems forward and/or rearward facing. If a rear facing child restraint system is fitted move the front seat forwards or adjust it’s backrest to ensure no interference between the child restraint system and the front seat.
X: Seating position not suitable for i-size ‘universal’ child restraint systems.
Permissible Options for Installing an ISOFIX Child Restraint System:
Weight Class
Size Class
Fixture
Front passenger seat
Rear outboard seats
Rear center seat
Group 0: up to 10kg
E
ISO/R1
X
IL
X
Group 0+: up to 13kg
E
ISO/R1
X
IL
X
D
ISO/R2
X
IL
X
C
ISO/R3
X
IL
X
Group I: 9 to 18kg
D
ISO/R2
X
IL
X
C
ISO/R3
X
IL
X
B
ISO/F2
X
IL, IUF
X
B1
ISO/F2X
X
IL, IUF
X
A
ISO/F3
X
IL, IUF
X
Booster Seats
F
ISO/B2
X
i-B
X
IL: Suitable for specific ISOFIX child restraint systems of the ‘specific-vehicle’, ‘restricted’ or ‘semi-universal’ categories. The ISOFIX restraint system must be approved for the specific vehicle type. If a rear facing child restraint system is fitted move the front seat forwards or adjust it’s backrest to ensure no interference between the child restraint system and the front seat.
IUF: Suitable for the universal category ISOFIX forward-facing child restraint approved for use in this weight class.
X: The ISOFIX position not suitable for ISOFIX child restraint systems in this weight group and/or this size class.
i-B: Suitable for Booster type child restraint system.
ISOFIX Size Class and Seat Device Definition:
A - ISO/F3
Forward-facing child restraint system for children of maximum size in 9 to 18 kg weight class.
B - ISO/F2
Forward-facing child restraint system for small children in 9 to 18 kg weight class.
B1 - ISO/F2X
Forward-facing child restraint system for small children in 9 to 18 kg weight class.
C - ISO/R3
Rear-facing child restraint system for children of maximum size in the weight class up to 18 kg.
D - ISO/R2
Rear-facing child restraint system for small children in the weight class up to 18 kg.
E - ISO/R1
Rear-facing child restraint system for young children in the weight class up to 13 kg.
F - ISO/B2
Forward-facing booster seat for children of maximum size in 9 to 18 kg weight class.
NOTE
ISOFIX is an international standard that specifies the attachment points for child safety seats in passenger cars.
Selecting the Appropriate Child Restraint System
Select an appropriate child restraint system based on a child’s height and weight.
Check if the child restraint system to be installed is compatible with the vehicle type.
Ensure that the seating location in the vehicle is suitable for your child restraint system.
Select a child restraint system that fits the vehicle seating position where it will be used.
NOTE
Always read and follow the instructions for installation as specified by the child restraint system manufacturer. If in doubt, contact a professional to complete the installation process.
Always secure the child restraint system properly with a seat belt or remove it from the vehicle when it is not in use.
A child restraint system which has been subjected to stress in an accident must be changed immediately before next use.
Recommended Child Restraint Systems
VinFast recommends the following child restraint systems:
Joie i-Gemm 3 + Joie i-base2
Joie Steadi
Britax Romer Kidfix Pro
Region Specific Regulations
ECE-R44 Weight Groups:
Group 0
Infants from 0 - 10 kg (birth to 9 months)
Group 0+
Infants from 0 - 13 kg (birth to 18 months)
Group I
Infants / toddlers until 9 - 18 kg (9 months to 4 years)
Group II
Children from 15 - 25 kg (4 to 7 years)
Group III
Children from 22 - 36 kg (6 to 12 years)
ECE R-129 Height Groups:
45 - 75 cm
Birth to approx. 12 months
45 - 75 cm
Birth to approx. 4 years
61 - 105 cm
4 months to 4 years
76 - 105 cm
15 months to 4 years
100 - 135 cm
4 years to 8 years
100 - 150 cm
4 years to 12 years
CAUTION
Please read and follow the installation instructions carefully when installing a Child Restraint System. If in doubt, contact a professional to complete the installation process.
Installation Locations
Prior to fitment of a child restraint system to the vehicle, it is critical to ensure the following:
The child restraint system has a label certifying that it meets the applicable safety standards of your country approved in accordance with ECE-R44 or ECE-R129.
Select an appropriate child restraint system based on a child’s height and weight.
Check if the child restraint system to be installed is compatible with the vehicle type.
Ensure that the seating location in the vehicle is suitable for your child restraint system.
Select a child restraint system that fits the vehicle seating position where it will be used.
For more detail on child restraint systems and their suitability for both your child and vehicle, see >   Child Restraint Systems > Child Restraint Systems Overview  .
Front Passenger Seat Fitment
WARNING
Ensure Front Passenger Airbag is turned OFF when a CRS is fitted to the front passenger seat.
Laws and regulations that govern how children should be restrained in a vehicle are subject to change. Therefore, it is the driver’s responsibility to be familiar and comply with regulations of the region where the vehicle is driven.
Refer to the following label located on the sun visors:
With Front Passenger Airbag is turned OFF, a forward facing child restraint system may be fitted on the front passenger seat.
The following instructions must be followed when fitting a child restraint system on the front passenger seat:
Position the child restraint system on the front passenger seat ensuring its base is pressed firmly against the seat back.
Avoid any gap between the child restraint system and passenger seat back by adjusting the seat back vertical position.
Position the base of the passenger seat as far rearward as possible.
For a child restraint system in groups 2 and 3, make sure the guide fitting attached to the child restraint system headrest is positioned in front of or level with the seat belt D-ring attached to the vehicle body (B-pillar).
Check that the belt routing through the guide is free of kinks and not bent over the edge of the guide fitting.
Rear Passenger Seat Fitment
A child restraint system may be fitted to both the rear outboard and rear center seats depending on fixing type. Refer to the child restraint system overview to determine suitability of seat type in each rear seat location.
See >   Child Restraint Systems > Child Restraint Systems Overview  .
Rear Outboard Fitment - Belted Type
Fully extend the seat belt to its maximum length to engage the automatic locking retractor (ALR).
Buckle the seat belt around the child restraint seat in accordance with the child seat manufacturer’s instructions.
Allow the seat belt to retract and remove all slack in the belt by pushing the child restraint seat into the vehicle’s seat.
If the child restraint seat is equipped with a top tether, attach it to the anchor point located at the rear of the back seat. See top tether section below.
CAUTION
When fitting a rearward facing child restraint system in the rear outboard seat, move the front seat forwards or adjust it’s backrest to ensure no interference between the child restraint system and the front seat.
ISOFIX / i-Size Type
The vehicle has been provided with ISOFIX﻿ anchors, which allows compatible child restraint systems to be attached directly to the rear seat structure, rather than using a seatbelt. ISOFIX metal arms on the child restraint attach and lock onto a U-shaped steel bar at the rear of the seat cushion.
The ISOFIX anchor points can be identified by ISOFIX markings   found on both rear outboard seats.
Extend the child restraint system latches onto the anchor bars until they click into place. Carefully read and follow the instructions provided by the child safety seat manufacturer.
Always test the safety seat before seating a child. This can be done by pulling the child restraint system away from the seat and moving it from side to side. It is critical that both latches are fully locked in position.
The rear seat cushion has a flap at the iso-fix area. To install the CRS, this flap must be opened
The following is an example of a rear facing ISOFIX attached child restraint system.
Rear Center Fitment -Belted Type
Children can occupy the rear center passenger seat in a forward facing position only, secured using a belted child restraint system.
NOTE
The rear seats are the safest location for a child to travel.
Support Leg (if equipped)
If your Child Restraint System is equipped with a support leg, ensure that it is fully extended and secured to the floor of the vehicle. Support legs can only be used in the rear outboard passenger seat locations. Follow installation instructions as described by the CRS manufacturer.
WARNING
When using a child restraint with a support leg, be sure that it rests firmly on the floor.
Top Tether Straps and Anchor Points
The top tether anchor is located at the back of the rear seats of the vehicle.
Installation of top tether anchors:
For single strap tethers - Route the tether strap from in between the headrest stems and attach it to the tether anchor at the back of the seat or follow the CRS manufacturer installation instructions.
For dual strap tethers - Route the tether straps provided with the child restraint system on either side of the headrest and attach them to the tether anchor at the back of the seat or follow the CRS manufacturer installation instructions.
WARNING
Please follow the instructions provided by the child restraint system manufacturer to ensure the child is seated safely and securely.
Adjust the seat harness for every child for each vehicle journey.
Make sure that the tether strap does not have any slack or twist.
Always inspect the seat belts, child restraint system belts and tether straps for damage and wear.
Never attach any equipment, harnesses, or other items to the anchor points in the vehicle.
Do not use a forward-facing child restraint system until the child is over 9kg (20 lbs).
The tether straps must be attached to only the tether anchor point and nowhere else. Tighten the tether strap according to the instructions provided by the manufacturer.
Never attach two child restraint systems to one anchor point as it may be incapable of securing both seats in an accident.
Only use anchorages and top-tethers of seats on which the CRS is being installed. Otherwise, poorly installed CRS may become detached from the seat causing serious injuries or death.
Before installing a child restraint system, be sure to confirm that the seat back is fully upright and securely locked into place. Otherwise, in an accident, serious injury or death could result.
Never use a child safety seat that has been involved in an accident. Have the seat inspected or replaced as described in the child safety seat manufacturer’s instructions.
Do not use seat belt extenders on a seat belt that is being used to install a child safety seat or booster seat.
Do not hold babies or infants on a passenger’s lap. All children must be securely restrained in the vehicle using a child restraint system.
Never leave children unattended inside the vehicle.

## Airbags

Airbags
The vehicle is equipped with Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) airbags and seat belts for the driver and passengers. The airbags are designed to provide maximum protection in conjunction with fastened seat belts.
WARNING
Always wear a seatbelt since it maybe the only restraint system protecting the occupant as airbags by design may not necessarily deploy in every vehicle collision.
Airbag Locations
Passenger Airbag
Front Seat Side Airbags (Left & Right)
Curtain Airbags
Driver Airbag
How Airbags Work
The airbag system consists of:
Airbag modules.
Occupant Classification System (OCS)
Crash sensors, monitoring system, and airbag indicator   (shows the operational status of airbags).
The Supplemental Restraint System constantly monitors multiple vehicle sensor inputs to determine the severity of a vehicle collision and decide which airbag should deploy, if required. An airbag will inflate rapidly with force when activated accompanied by a loud noise.
It is possible that airbags may not deploy as a result of minor or underbody collisions or impacts with narrow objects. There can be significant superficial damage to the vehicle without resulting in airbag deployment and conversely, relatively small structural damage can trigger the airbags to deploy. Therefore, the external appearance of the vehicle after a collision is not indicative of whether or not the airbags should have inflated.
WARNING
Inflatable airbags and properly fastened seat belts limit the driver’s mobility and reduce the risk of injury from contact with vehicle internal components.
Always wear seat belts properly at all times even when an airbag system is provided. Failing to wear a seatbelt can cause serious injury or death.
Do not sit unnecessarily close to any airbag deployment zone. The driver should maintain a recommended distance from the steering wheel while still maintaining control of the vehicle.
Do not place objects, stickers or mount equipment/accessories on or near the airbag deployment zones. Failure to follow these instructions may increase the risk of injury or death in the event of an accident.
To ensure that the Airbag system will operate correctly, never place your feet on the dashboard, outside the window, or on seat surfaces.
Various components of the Airbag system are located throughout vehicle. Incorrect work or repairs could damage the airbag system components. As a result, in the event of an accident, the airbags may deploy incorrectly or won’t deploy altogether, causing serious or fatal injuries.
The Airbag system is only able to provide protection during a single collision. A crash can damage the Airbag systems in the vehicle. A damaged Airbag system may not properly protect you and your passenger(s) in a crash, resulting in serious injury or even death. To help make sure the Airbag systems are working properly after a crash, contact VinFast Service Center and have them inspected and any necessary replacements made as soon as possible.
Do not use unauthorized accessory seat covers, they could prevent Airbag deployment and increase risk of injury in an accident.
Do not lean your head on the door. You could risk getting injured from the deployment of airbags from the side of the seat back.
Ensure that all passengers are seated upright, centered on the seat cushion with a seatbelt correctly fastened, legs extended with feet on the floor. Failure to do so could result in serious injury upon airbag deployment.
Do not modify the vehicle. It may affect the functioning of the Airbag system. Contact a VinFast Service Center before doing any modifications to your vehicle. Any unauthorized modifications to the vehicle may cause serious damage to critical systems and endanger occupant’s lives.
If the front passenger airbag is not deactivating either when a child restraint system is fitted or the seat is unoccupied, there may be a fault with the Occupant Classification System. Failing to follow this warning may cause serious injury or death of the occupant.
All children of age 12 years and below are recommended to occupy the rear seats only. Failing to follow this warning may cause serious injury or death.
It is not recommended to install a child restraint system on the front passenger seat even if legally permitted. If however, a child restraint system must be fitted in this location, ensure the front passenger airbag OFF icon is present and remains illuminated at all times on the Infotainment screen. Fitment of a child restraint system in the front passenger seat with an active airbag can cause serious injury or death in an event of airbag deployment.
NOTE
During a period of time after the deployment of the airbag, the vehicle’s high-voltage battery will disconnect from the electrical system, rendering the vehicle inoperable.
When an airbag is deployed, powder like dust particles may be released into the vehicle cabin. This is not an indication of a vehicle fire. The fine dust may cause skin or eye irritation and could cause breathing difficulties. To avoid such effects leave the vehicle when safe to do so if able or alternatively open windows or doors. It is advisable to wash your hands and face with a mild soap and water to reduce effects.
Some collisions may appear to have significant structural damage but the airbags may not deploy. Conversely, some collisions with lower levels of structural damage may trigger an airbag deployment. An airbag will deploy if the vehicle deceleration level is high enough in order to provide the necessary protection. Therefore, the appearance of the vehicle after a collision does not indicate whether the airbag should have inflated or not.
Passenger Front Airbag Status
When the front passenger seat airbag is OFF,   icon will be displayed at the Infotainment screen.
You can slide down from the top status bar of Infotainment screen, tap   button turn on/off front passenger airbag.
The Impact of Expansion
When the airbag expands, it will release a fine powder. This powder may irritate the skin and should be thoroughly rinsed off eyes and cuts or abrasions.
If the airbag expands or the vehicle experiences an accident, it is necessary to inspect the airbag, seat belt tensioner, and any related components; Please contact the VinFast Service Center or an approved dealer for inspection or replacement.
When a collision occurs, in addition to the airbag expanding, the doors will also be unlocked accordingly.
Airbag Warning Indicator
The airbag indicator light   on the screen is used to indicate whether there is a malfunction in the airbag system.
Normal Condition -  The indicator light will light up for a few seconds and then turn OFF after the vehicle is started.
Abnormal Condition - The indicator light to illuminate or flash continuously.
NOTE
If the abnormal condition is noticed, stop the vehicle and park it in a safe location and contact the VinFast Service Center.
Types of Airbags
Front Airbags
The vehicle is fitted with both a driver and passenger front airbag. The driver’s airbag is located in the center of the steering wheel and the passenger airbag is located in the dashboard area. Both airbag deployment locations have “AIRBAG” identifiers.
How the airbag is triggered:
The driver and front passenger airbags are designed to deploy during significant frontal collisions, minimizing the risk of injury to the head and shoulder region.
During a collision the vehicles crash sensors will receive information regarding the collision type, the collision angle, and the severity of impact. Based on this information the vehicles Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) will determine if the crash event meets the criteria for front airbag deployment.
WARNING
Make sure that nothing is in between the passenger and airbag deployment area as it may interfere with airbag deployment.
Avoid leaning against the door or the console area while vehicle is in motion.
The airbags are part of the supplementary restraint system and are designed to accompany the seatbelt in protecting the occupants from injury in the upper body. The airbags inflate rapidly so maintaining a proper seating position is of utmost importance to prevent incurring injury once an airbag deploys.
NOTE
In the event of a rear or side collision, the front airbags may not deploy, and in this case, only the front seat belt tensioner will activate.
Side Airbags
The vehicle is equipped with side airbags to protect the driver and front passengers. There are two side airbags located on the outermost side of each front backrest. These airbags protect passengers in the event of a side collision or rollover. The airbag deployment locations have “AIRBAG” identifiers.
How the side airbags are triggered:
During a collision the vehicles crash sensors will receive information regarding the collision type, the collision angle, and the severity of impact. Based on this information the vehicles Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) will determine if the crash event meets the criteria for side airbag deployment.
Due to the minimal distance between the passenger and the door, the side airbags will inflate rapidly. Side airbags are designed to reduce the risks of injuries to the head and upper body.
WARNING
Do not keep any objects near airbag deployment zones or near the side door glass as it may cause a serious injury or death when airbags deploy.
Do not bang, kick, or hammer the side of the vehicle when the vehicle is on. Such actions may cause side airbags to deploy.
CAUTION
Do not open or repair any parts of the side airbag system, as this may disrupt its functioning. If necessary, have the system serviced by a VinFast Service ﻿Center.
NOTE
Side airbags may not be deployed in the event of a rear end collision. Both front seatbelt pre-tensioners however will be activated.
Safety seat belts and the vehicle airbag system will provide protection only when occupants are correctly seated.
Curtain Airbags
The vehicle is equipped with two curtain airbags mounted in the roof headliners above the doors. Curtain airbags deployment locations have “AIRBAG” identifiers, located on the door pillar. They are designed to protect passengers in case of severe side impacts, vehicle roll-overs or offset frontal crashes.
How the curtain airbags are triggered:
During a collision the vehicles crash sensors will receive information regarding the collision type, the collision angle, and the severity of impact. Based on this information the vehicles Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) will determine if the crash event meets the criteria for curtain airbag deployment.
The curtain airbags help to reduce the risk of injury to the head and neck area of the occupants.
WARNING
Avoid attaching any object near the area which covers the deployment zone of the curtain airbags.
Ensure that the passengers are seated close to the back of their seat with a correctly fastened seat belt to obtain the best protection from the curtain airbag.
The vehicle with smaller wheelbase have a significantly higher rollover rate than other types of vehicles. To prevent rollovers or loss of control:
• Take corners at slower speeds.
• Avoid sharp turns and abrupt maneuvers.
• Do not modify vehicle in any way that would raise the center of gravity.
• Keep tires properly inflated.
At highway speeds, you are much more likely to rollover if you lose control of your vehicle. The driver may lose control if two or more wheels fall off the road and the driver have to oversteer to regain control.
In a rollover crash, an unbelted person is significantly more likely to die than a person wearing a seat belt. Ensure all passengers are wearing their seat belts.
CAUTION
In case of a severe side impact collision, the curtain airbags will deploy even if there are no occupants seated.
Do not open or repair any parts of the side curtain airbag system, as this may disrupt its functioning. If necessary, have the system serviced by a VinFast Service Center.
Operation & Occupant Detection
Occupant Detection Status
The vehicle is fitted with an Occupant Classification sensor that automatically establishes if an adult or a child is occupying the front passenger seat, adjusting the airbag status, and the airbag deployment accordingly. If an adult occupies the seat the passenger airbag will be ON. When a child or a Child Restraint System (CRS) is seated in the front passenger seat, the front passenger airbag can be manually switched OFF using the touchscreen.
Please follow the recommendations to ensure correct occupant detection:
Sit in an upright position in the seat with shoulders and back against the seat back and legs extended in front with feet on the floor, See >   Seats > Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions  .
Fasten the seatbelt.
Remain seated correctly at all times.
The following situations can cause an inaccurate occupant detection status:
Placing large or heavy items on the front passenger seat.
Placing powered electrical devices which may interfere with the front passenger seat occupant classification sensor.
Incorrectly fitting a CRS system.
Items located under the seat or wedged between the cushion and seat back.
Any ﻿unauthorised accessories fitted to the seat.
WARNING
If the front passenger seat airbag status is not turning ON or OFF as expected when the seat is occupied, do not allow any passengers to occupy the seat until it has been inspected and rectified by an ﻿authorised VinFast Service ﻿Center.
To ensure accuracy of the Occupant Detection System, do not modify the front seat in any way.
If it is legal in your region to have a child seated on the front passenger seat, ensure the passenger airbag is not active. Otherwise it could cause serious injury or death if the airbag gets deployed in case of an accident.
It is the drivers responsibility to ensure the passenger airbag status is OFF if a child is occupying the front seat.
When the front passenger seat airbag is OFF,   icon will be displayed at the infotainment screen.
NOTE
It is recommended that all children 12 years and under must be seated in the rear seats of the vehicle.
Airbag Deployment Conditions
Driver and Front Passenger Airbags
Vehicle is equipped with sensors. In the event of vehicle collision these devices calculate the impact on the vehicle and at a certain impact the airbag get triggered/deployed. Other factors also related to density and stiffness of the impacted vehicle or objects are also considered.
The driver and front passenger airbags protect the head, neck, and chest of the driver and front passenger, preventing direct impact of the steering wheel/dashboard. The airbag will only expand in the event of a serious frontal collision.
Front Seat Side Airbags
The front seat side airbags will deploy between the passenger and the door trim, protecting the passenger’s chest, shoulders, and buttocks and minimizing injuries.
Curtain Airbags
The curtain airbags will deploy from the roof area along the side windows, protecting passengers in case of severe side impacts, vehicle roll-overs or offset frontal crashes.
WARNING
Do not install or place any accessories (cup holders, box holders, stickers, etc.) on the steering wheel or dashboard where the airbag is installed, as these items may cause personal injury or death if the airbag is deployed.
Do not place any objects in the area between the outer side of the seat and the door trim panel, as it may cause personal injury or death when the airbag is deployed.
Avoid attaching any object near the area which covers the deployment zone of the curtain airbags.
Do not use seat covers on the backrest of the front seats, as seat covers may interfere with the deployment of the front seat side airbags, causing personal injury or death.The airbag system can only provide one-time accident protection function. If the airbag has been triggered, the airbag system components must be replaced.
When the airbag is deployed, High voltage battery will be disconnected. Please contact the VinFast Service Center or Customer call center immediately for assistance.
Airbags Inflate Condition:
In the event of a frontal and side collision, when the vehicle’s sensors detect sufficient collision intensity, the airbag will deploy.
The airbag may deploy if bumps or objects on uneven roads or sidewalks affect the vehicle chassis.
Situations Where Airbags May Not Deploy
In many types of accidents, such as rear end collisions, side collisions, oblique collisions, special rear end collisions, rollover accidents, and certain special collisions, the airbags may not deploy.
In secondary or tertiary collisions, or low-speed collisions, even if the airbags are deployed, they cannot provide additional protection.
The vehicle collided with a pillar or tree, but the collision force did not meet the triggering conditions of the airbag sensor.
Due to the collision force and deceleration not meeting the requirements, the vehicle does not meet the triggering conditions of the airbag sensor when it collides with other vehicles or enters the lower part of a large vehicle.
When a rear end or side collision causes the vehicle to roll over, the airbags may not deploy.

# Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS)


## Driving Assistance

ACC - Adaptive Cruise Control
Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) is an advanced driver assistance system that automatically adjusts vehicle speed to maintain a safe following distance to the vehicle in front. The system uses a combination of radar and forward facing camera to maintain a safe and comfortable distance to the vehicle in front. ACC can stop and auto-resume with time bound in congested traffic. ACC will maintain a user selectable safe distance based on TimeGap from a forward vehicle, or maintain a chosen set speed.
ACC will reduce the vehicle’s speed if it is determined to be too high while driving through a curve.
Objects that Adaptive Cruise Control can detect and brake:
Cars
Trucks
Buses
Motorbikes (not all types)
Bicycles (not all types)
NOTE
ACC does not brake for animals, pedestrians, bumps and oncoming or crossing vehicles.
Adaptive Cruise Control Operation
ACC Controls Overview:
Activate ACC
Resume button
Cancel button
Distance gap decrease button
Distance gap increase button
Push up: Increase speed
Pull down: Decrease speed
To set Adaptive Cruise Control﻿:
To engage ACC, users can push the gear shift lever one step downward.
When ACC activated: Set speed   will display with blue color and the leading vehicle will be highlighted (if detected).
NOTE
At first ACC activation cycle if there is no target detected in front, the vehicle needs to be between the speed of 20 km/h and 150 km/h to activate Adaptive Cruise Control function.
At first ACC activation cycle if there is a target vehicle then the ACC can be activated at any speed below 150 km/h.
In the next ACC activation cycle the ACC can be activated at any speed below 150 km/h with or without a target.
* Maximum Limit as mentioned, is the feature of system, customer is liable to follow laws of the land as applicable while driving.
To resume ACC to a previous set speed:
After first ACC activation, if the driver deactivates ACC using Stalk switch​   (moving the gear shift lever inward), or by pressing the brake pedal, ACC can be resumed again by using the Stalk switch​   (moving the gear shift lever outward) with memorized settings of set speed and time gap. It is allowed at any speed within the range less than 150km/h or without leading vehicle as long as the driver confirmed.
To adjust ACC speed:
To adjust the set speed, use the left scroll wheel on the steering wheel.
To increase the set speed, push the left scroll wheel   upward.
To decrease the set speed, pull the left scroll wheel   downward.
To set new speed- override by accelerator pedal and push the stalk switch down.
NOTE
Single push or pull of left scroll wheel   will increase or decrease the speed by 1 unit
Push or pull and hold the left scroll wheel    for increasing or decreasing the speed by 5 units
The minimum set speed is 20 km/h and the maximum is 150 km/h.
* Maximum Limit as mentioned, is the feature of system, Customer is liable to follow laws of the land as applicable while driving.
To adjust the distance gap to the vehicle ahead:
To increase the distance gap, press the right button  .
To decrease the distance gap, press the left button  .
NOTE
Vehicle distance gap will default to the maximum setting after the first vehicle start, or to the driver’s saved preference for subsequent starts.
The ACC system will be cancelled by:
Moving the right stalk switch inward  .
Pressing the brake pedal.
When the driver remains in override mode more than 15 minutes.
When the vehicle speed is > 150km/h (93 mph).
System fault.
ACC Stop & Go Operation
During Stop & Go operation, if the vehicle has stopped due to detecting stationary traffic ahead, the driver must manually resume ACC when stopped for 3 seconds or more. If the stop is under 3 seconds the system will automatically resume operation.
Additional considerations:
If the vehicle ahead is stationary, the ACC system may hold the vehicle for up to 5 minutes. The driver can resume ACC at any time.
The driver must press the throttle pedal or using right stalk switch in order to resume ACC to follow the leading vehicle, if the holding time is between 3 seconds to 5 minutes and the leading vehicle takes off during this holding time.
If the vehicle is required to hold for more than 5 minutes, the electronic parking brake will automatically apply and the driver will need to release the parking brake or press the throttle pedal to release it. Once the parking brake is released, ACC can be reactivated by moving the right stalk switch outward.
CAUTION
If front camera and radar are obstructed or not available, ACC will not be available for operation​
Due to the system limitations, the ACC may not be able to detect stationary objects, two wheelers which are partially into the vehicle path. The driver must stay alert at all times and takeover vehicle control as necessary.​
The user must always monitor vehicle behavior and the road ahead when ACC is active and always be prepared to take full control of the vehicle. When ACC is activated, The user is always required to control the steering wheel when ACC is active.​
NOTE
If equipped with Driver Monitoring System (DMS) that is camera based and driver detected that he pays attention, and the vehicle stop is under 5 minutes, the system shall automatically resume operation.
Adaptive Cruise Control can be used in combination with Speed Limit Control Function, see >   Driving Assistance > ISA - Intelligent Speed Adjustment  .
Adaptive Cruise Control Modes
Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) automatically maintains the selected vehicle speed and the driver-selected following distance from a vehicle ahead. Depending on the driving situation, ACC provides the following operating behaviors.
Follow Mode:
When a slower vehicle is detected ahead, ACC automatically adjusts the vehicle speed to maintain the selected following distance.
If the leading vehicle slows down, ACC reduces the vehicle speed as required. When the road ahead is clear, ACC gradually accelerates the vehicle back to the previously set speed.
If another vehicle cuts into your lane, ACC automatically adjusts the vehicle speed to re-establish the selected following distance.
The following distance can be adjusted at any time using the distance setting controls on the steering wheel.
Curve Speed Control
When driving through curves, ACC may automatically reduce vehicle speed to improve driving comfort and vehicle stability.
Once the road straightens and operating conditions permit, ACC gradually returns the vehicle to the previously set speed.
The amount of speed reduction depends on factors such as vehicle speed, road curvature, and driving conditions.
Overtaking Support
While following another vehicle, activating the turn indicator may indicate the driver’s intention to overtake.
If the system determines that conditions are appropriate, ACC may temporarily increase vehicle acceleration to assist the overtaking maneuver.
After the overtaking maneuver is completed, ACC automatically resumes normal speed and following distance control.
Cruise Control Mode
Maintains the driver-selected vehicle speed when no vehicle is detected ahead. The driver must remain attentive and brake or take control whenever necessary.
Under Cruise Control Mode, user can set minimum speed of 20 km/h and maximum speed of 150 kph while using Adaptive Cruise Control.
WARNING
Overtaking mode will operate only when suitable conditions are met. Always check vehicle lane markings and road conditions ahead prior to overtaking.
The driver is always responsible for vehicle speed and the distance to other vehicles ahead.
Always pay attention to the traffic around you even when adaptive cruise control is enabled.
ACC is prohibited to use under following conditions:​
In urban areas where traffic density is high with combination of multiple class of vehicles​
Roads with multiple successive curves.​
When the road surface is in poor condition.​
Slippery surfaces.​
Too bumpy surfaces​
Roads with steep slopes over 20%.​
When there is exit from expressways and around construction zones.​
While towing any vehicle.​
When there is bad weather (such as ice, fog, gravel, heavy rain but not limited to).​
WARNING
ACC performance may be reduced, or the system may not operate as intended, in the following situations:​
- In complex traffic or highly dynamic surroundings where vehicles, pedestrians, or other objects cannot be reliably detected or classified.​
- When pedestrians, vehicles, or other road users suddenly or rapidly move into the vehicle’s path.​
- When a pedestrian, vehicle, or other road user cannot be clearly distinguished from the background.​
- When driving through tight curvy road or during dynamic or aggressive driving.​
- When encountering large vehicles, such as trucks or buses, or vehicles with unusual shapes or configurations.​
- Always be aware of the set speed and vehicle distance gap​
​In complex driving situations, ACC may issue a warning or apply the brakes even when there is no immediate targets. Consider to use higher time gap
setting to follow the targets at higher speed which gives sufficient distance from front vehicles. Do not rely solely on ACC to prevent a collision. ​
Overtaking mode will operate only when suitable conditions are met. Always check vehicle lane markings and road conditions ahead prior to overtaking.​
TSR - Traffic Sign Recognition (if equipped)
The Traffic Sign Recognition System (TSR) assists the driver by notifying the current posted speed limit and other traffic signs. ﻿Traffic signs may be displayed on the Infotainment screen.
In addition, the system may also detect other non-speed related traffic signs. These may include:
Bicycle paths
Expressways
Town zone
Snow
Camping zone
Highways
Traffic sign icons can be displayed on Driver View Area. For more information, see >   Drive View > Overview  .
How Traffic Sign Recognition Works
Traffic Sign Recognition uses a camera mounted on the windshield together with recognition software that detects road traffic signs on the road ahead. The system then displays this information on the Infotainment screen. When Adaptive Cruise Control is active and the Intelligent Speed Adjustment is enabled via the Infotainment screen, the vehicle’s speed will be automatically adjusted as per the detected speed sign﻿. For more information, see >   Driving Assistance > ISA - Intelligent Speed Adjustment  .
Some examples of traffic signs that may be recognized depending on the country:
Traffic Sign
Display
Speed Limit
No Entry
Residential Zone
Highway Zone
Town Zone
End of Town Zone
Express Way
Bicycle Way
NOTE
Traffic Signs shown above are for reference only. The vehicle will detect and show traffic signs on the Infotainment screen based on the region of operation.
Traffic Signs may not be the same for all regions.
Traffic Sign Recognition System Limitations
TSR system performance may be impacted in the following conditions:
Poor visibility due to snow, fog, or heavy rain.
Poor visibility due to glare from oncoming traffic or the sun.
At high-speeds.
If the camera’s field of vision is obstructed; e.g., dirt or stickers.
If the traffic signs are completely or partially covered.
If traffic signs do not conform to the standard format.
If traffic signs are damaged or bent.
If traffic signs are displayed on sign holders with electronic signs.
If the traffic signs or the roadways have changed and the navigation data is no longer up-to-date.
To activate/deactivate Traffic Sign Recognition:
Tap  ADAS    in the Driver View area on the screen.
O r, Tap  App Library    >  Drive Aids  .
Tap  Driving Assistance    >  Speed.  Find  Traffic Sign Recognition (TSR) . Tap  ON/OFF  on the toggle button.
O r,   Tap  Quick Access   . Tap  TSR  to activate/deactivate this feature.
To activate/deactivate Speed Limit Warning:
Tap  ADAS    in the Driver View area on the screen.
O r, Tap  App Library    >  Drive Aids  .
Tap  Driving Assistance    >  Speed.
Find  Speed Limit Warning (SLW) .
Tap  ON/OFF  on the toggle button.
Tap on the chime toggle to Mute/Unmute audio chime (audible warning).
The driver can also apply a speed offset above a detected speed limit. Press + and - buttons to increase or decrease the offset in speed base.
WARNING
Vehicle speed always remains the responsibility of the driver. Always observe traffic signs while driving.
Under certain circumstances, traffic sign recognition may not detect traffic signs correctly or not detect at all. As a result, the system may not display the correct speed limit.
CAUTION
The speed limit sign displayed in Driver View Area is based on the units used (mph or km/h) in the country where the vehicle is being operated. This may differ from the unit of speed displayed on the vehicle’s speedometer, which is determined by the driver’s vehicle settings.
NOTE
The Traffic Sign Recognition system only displays the traffic sign icons on the Infotainment screen. It will not adjust vehicle speed. Please activate Intelligent Speed Adaption to enable this functionality.
For optimal performance of Traffic Sign Recognition  (TSR) , Speed Limit Warning (SLW), and Intelligent Speed Adjustment (ISA), especially in regions mandating intelligent speed assistance systems like the European Union, both GPS and Internet connectivity are required.
Note that if there is a loss of GPS and/or Internet connection, this may degrade the performance of these key functionalities or temporarily disable TSR, SLW, and ISA.
TSR, SLW, and ISA may not be available in all regions/markets. For detailed information on availability and coverage zones, please contact a VinFast dealership.
ISA - Intelligent Speed Adjustment (if equipped)
Intelligent Speed Adjustment (ISA) assists in controlling the vehicle speed within the legally enforced speed limits to assist safe driving.
When the system is activated in combination with Adaptive Cruise Control and Highway Assist, Intelligent Speed Adjustment will adjust the vehicle set-speed when there is a new detected speed limit after the driver confirms by pressing the ISA button on the steering wheel.
Since ISA is an assistance system, it will only assist the driver in adjusting the speed to the legal limits. The driver will always be responsible for controlling the vehicle speed within legal limits and should always be available to take control of the vehicle.
NOTE
This function can be used in combination with Highway Assist and Adaptive Cruise Control. This is not a standalone feature.
Traffic Sign Recognition must be ON in order to enable Intelligent Speed Adjustment.
For optimal performance of Traffic Sign Recognition (TSR), Speed Limit Warning (SLW), and Intelligent Speed Adjustment (ISA), especially in regions mandating intelligent speed assistance systems like the European Union, both GPS and Internet connectivity are required.
Note that if there is a loss of GPS and/or Internet connection, this may degrade the performance of these key functionalities or temporarily disable TSR, SLW, and ISA.
TSR, SLW, and ISA may not be available in all regions/markets. For detailed information on availability and coverage zones, please contact a VinFast dealership.
ISA may not work if the absolute delta (between TSR the speed limit value and the driver’s set speed) is more than 50 km/h.
To activate/deactivate Intelligent Speed Adjustment:
Tap  ADAS    in the Driver View area on the screen.
O r, Tap  App Library    >  Drive Aids  .
Tap  Driving Assistance    >  Speed.
Find  Intelligent Speed Adjustment (ISA) .
Tap  ON/OFF  on the toggle button.
The set speed icon will be shown on the touchscreen with a market-specific traffic sign indicating that ISA is now active.
Whenever a new speed limit value is detected, short press the left scroll wheel to adapt the set speed to the new speed limit.
System Malfunctions
A malfunction warning will be triggered when a failure is detected in the ISA system or with other related ADAS systems and will be shown on the Infotainment screen to notify the driver.
WARNING
Intelligent Speed Adjustment relies on speed limit information from the Traffic Sign Recognition system. The Traffic Sign Recognition system may not detect posted speed signs in poor weather or if the signs are poorly visible (not in the field of view) or the signs are in poor condition. The system will also be impacted when the front camera is blocked by dirt, snow, or ice; if they are in poor condition; or due to sun glare. The driver will always be responsible for controlling the vehicle speed within legal limits and should always be in available to take control of the vehicle.
Intelligent Speed Adjustment is a Driving Assist System. The driver has full responsibility to maintain the speed and control of the vehicle at all times.
Always be alert for vehicles or objects that may suddenly appear in front of you. If necessary, depress the brake pedal to reduce your driving speed in order to maintain a safe distance.
Always be aware of the set speed.
The vehicle may increase/decrease speed on a slope.
CAUTION
Always make sure that all cameras, sensors and radars are clean and in working condition.
Highway Assist (if equipped)
Highway Assist is a driver assistance function that supports the driver during highway driving and congested traffic conditions (traffic jam) supporting a safe and comfortable journey. Highway Assist adjusts the vehicle speed to match the flow of the traffic. It also adjusts the steering to keep the vehicle inside its lane boundaries.
NOTE
Highway Assist is designed to be used on highways and highway-like roads (roadways separated by constructional means) and it is the responsibility of the driver to use this function in appropriate road conditions.
Drivers are required to keep their hands on the steering wheel at all times while this feature is active.
This feature can be used in combination with Intelligent Speed Adjustment.
The driver must supervise the system under all conditions and is always ultimately responsible for control of the vehicle.
Preconditions for activating Highway Assist are:
Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) conditions are fulfilled.
Speed range is within 0 km/h (0 mph) to 150 km/h (93 mph).
Two-lane markings or the leading vehicle are detected.
Lane width must be within the range of 2.5m and 5.5m.
The gear position should be in Drive (D).
Driver hands-on conditions are satisfied.
WARNING
Keep your hands on the steering wheel at all times when driving.
The Highway Assist function is designed to assist the driver in operating the vehicle and is not a fully autonomous driving system. Whenever a driver uses an assistive technology, he or she should always check to ensure conditions are suitable and if necessary, take appropriate measures to adjust vehicle speed or direction.
Ensure the road ahead is observed at all times and traffic laws followed.
In no event will the vehicle manufacturer be responsible for a driver’s actions that cause traffic violations or accidents.
The vehicle may drift to one side or may depart from the driving lane when it is driven at high speed or on a curve.
It is not recommended to use or activate this feature when towing anything such as a trailer, recreational vehicles, etc. Failure to comply may result in property damage, serious injury or death.
User shall take control of the vehicle when Lane markings are faded, missing, covered, or difficult to detect, Construction area , temporary lane markings, Roads have sharp curves,  complex interchanges, merging/diverging lanes, vehicle is driving through intersections, tollgate or exit/entry ramps.
Highway Assist Features
Highway Assist consists of the following main components:
Adaptive Cruise Control  - See >   Driving Assistance > ACC - Adaptive Cruise Control  .
Lane Centering Control - Assists in keeping the vehicle centered in its lane by applying small corrective steering inputs.
Auto Lane Change Assist (if available)- See >   Driving Assistance >  ALCA - Auto Lane Changing Assist .
Automatic Emergency Stop Assist  - See >   Driving Assistance > AESA - Automatic Emergency Stop Assist  .
When Highway Assist is active, the Traffic Jam Assist feature will also operate at lower vehicle speeds. Traffic Jam Assist is an extension of Adaptive Cruise control and is described later in this section.
Highway Assist Operation
To activate Highway Assist
Highway Assist Activation​
When Highway Assist is available, the lane fill and lane lines are displayed in gray,
indicating that the system is in Standby and ready for activation.​
To activate Highway Assist:​
Shift the vehicle into D (Drive).​
Ensure Highway Assist is in Standby and both lane lines are detected.​
Activate via the deep downward stalk movement  .
When Highway Assist is activated, the following indicators change to blue:​
Lane fill and lane lines, indicating that Highway Assist is actively assisting with vehicle steering control within the detected lane.​
Set speed icon   and trajectory display, indicating that Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) has been automatically activated alongside Highway Assist.​
To adjust gap:
When a vehicle ahead passes in front of your vehicle or a slower vehicle is detected ahead, the vehicle speed will be adjusted to maintain the current gap setting. To adjust the gap setting:
To increase the distance gap, press the right button  .
To decrease the distance gap, press the left button  .
To adjust speed:
If you have switched the system ON, you can set or change the set speed using the left scroll wheel on the steering wheel.
To increase the set speed, push the left scroll wheel   upward.
To decrease the set speed, pull the left scroll wheel   downward.
NOTE
Press and hold the left scroll wheel   for increasing or decreasing the speed by large increments.
Highway Assist Temporary Degradation​
Highway Assist may temporarily enter Degraded Mode under certain conditions
When Highway Assist is in Degraded Mode:​
Steering assistance is temporarily unavailable.​
Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) remains active and continues to control vehicle speed and maintain following distance.​
The driver must immediately take over steering control​
​The degraded state is indicated by:​
The lane fill and lane lines changing from blue to gray.​
The set speed icon and trajectory display remaining blue, indicating that ACC remains active.​
A short audible chime.​
When operating conditions permit, Highway Assist automatically resumes full functionality​
WARNING
During Highway Assist Degraded Mode, the driver is responsible for maintaining vehicle position within the lane at all times.
Highway Assist Deactivation​
Highway Assist can be deactivated at any time by driver action:​
Pressing the brake pedal.​
Performing the Cancel action   (by moving the gear shift lever inward).​
Highway Assist can also be automatically deactivated when operating conditions are not met (faults). When Highway Assist is deactivated:​
Both steering and speed assistance are canceled.​
The driver must immediately take over the driving task completely.​
A visual notification and audible warning may be issued to prompt the driver to take control.​
The lane fill, lane lines, and trajectory display change from blue to gray or are removed from the display.
Traffic Jam Assist
Traffic Jam Assist (TJA) is a low-speed (<60 km/h) operating mode of Highway Assist (HWA). It combines Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) and Lane Centering Control that automatically controls vehicle speed and lane position based on traffic conditions ahead. The system helps alleviate some of the fatigue associated with driving in slow moving traffic that is constantly stopping and starting. Traffic Jam Assist uses both camera and radar along with steering wheel input to track a vehicle ahead and adjust both throttle and brake inputs to maintain a safe distance. The lane centering feature also ensures the vehicle remains safely in the center of its lane while maneuvering through congested highways and traffic jam.
Traffic Jam Assist does not require separate activation or deactivation; it automatically becomes available and disengages according to the activation and deactivation conditions of Highway Assist.
WARNING
Stay alert and prepare to take control of the car if the TJA system is deactivated.
Be sure to keep your hands on the steering wheel when you are using the TJA system.
It is the driver’s responsibility to always be aware of his or her surroundings when the system is operating, and be ready to take control of the vehicle at any time.
The steering wheel should be free of any objects (e.g. steering wheel covers) that could interfere with the hand detection sensor.
NOTE
If Traffic Jam Assist brings the vehicle to a complete stop for more than 3 seconds, the driver is required to either use the Resume button (by moving the gear shift lever outward) or press the accelerator pedal to resume operation.
If the vehicle remains stationary for longer than 5 minutes, TJA will be deactivated and the Electric Park Brake applied.
The function works with and without lane marking. As no lane marking is recognized, there must be leading vehicles and a virtual lane shall be created to guide the vehicle to follow.
AESA - Automatic Emergency Stop Assist
Automatic Emergency Stop Assist (AESA) is an emergency support function within Highway Assist (HWA). AESA is designed to bring the vehicle to a controlled stop in the same lane if the driver becomes unresponsive while the system is active.
AESA is not a standalone driving function. It supports the driver only during specific emergency conditions and does not replace the driver’s responsibility to remain alert and in control of the vehicle.
NOTE
AESA is automatically available when HWA is active and cannot be disabled separately by the driver.
AESA Operation
AESA uses driver hands-on detection to help determine whether the driver is available to operate the vehicle. If hands-off driving is detected for more than 40 seconds, AESA may start a minimum risk maneuver.
AESA helps keep the vehicle within the lane while slowing to a stop. The system does not change lanes to the road shoulder.
When AESA is decelerating the vehicle:
The hazard lights turn on
AESA helps keep the vehicle within the lane
AESA controls braking to slow the vehicle to a stop
After vehicle comes to complete stop:
eCall will be triggered
EPB will be applied
Doors will be unlocked
AESA will be off
The minimum risk maneuver is intended to bring the vehicle to a standstill unless the system is deactivated by the driver during the maneuver.
WARNING AESA is designed for emergencies when the driver is not responding. Do not rely on AESA as a stopping method under normal circumstances.
Always keep your hands on the steering wheel and remain prepared to take full control of the vehicle. Failure to remain alert and in control may result in property damage, serious injury, or death.
After AESA brings the vehicle to a stop in lane, doors will unlock automatically and an eCall will be triggered. While decelerating, deceleration shall be canceled if driver attention is detected by Brake press or hand(s) ON.​

## Lane Assistance

Lane Assist Systems
Overview
Lane Assist systems are a group of Advanced Driver Assistance System which assist the driver in avoiding unintended lane departures and preventing potential collisions via steering intervention. Lane Assist consists of the following features:
Lane Departure Warning (LDW)
Lane Keep Assist (LKA)
Emergency Lane Keeping (ELK)
Lane Departure Warning (LDW)
Lane Departure Warning (LDW) is a driver assistance system that warns drivers when their vehicle unintentionally drifts towards the lane markers by using a visual warning icon, a warning sound and haptic steering wheel feedback by vibrating the steering wheel. This feature does not actively apply steering intervention.
LDW will be active whenever any Lane Assist mode is enabled.
Lane Keep Assist (LKA)
Lane Keep Assist (LKA) is a driver assistance system that actively supports the driver in maintaining the vehicle within its current lane. When the system detects the vehicle unintentionally drifting towards either lane marker or road edge it adjusts the vehicle path by corrective steering.
LKA is available when Lane Assist (LA) is turned on and Auto-steer is enabled.
Emergency Lane Keeping (ELK)
Emergency Lane Keeping (ELK) is a driver assistance system that avoids or lessens the severity of accidents by automatically applying a steering correction when a vehicle is about to drift beyond a solid lane marking, the edge of the road or into oncoming or overtaking traffic in an adjacent lane.
ELK recognizes lane markings, road edges, and vehicles traveling in the same or opposite direction in the adjacent lane and controls the steering wheel to prevent the vehicle from drifting or colliding with other vehicles in the adjacent lane.
ELK will be active whenever  Emergency Lane Keeping  Mode is enabled.
ELK Oncoming scenario shall work only on driver side when Turn indicator is OFF.
ELK overtaking scenario shall not be suppressed by Turn Indicator signals.
How Lane Assist Works
The Lane Keeping assist system works by using a camera mounted on the windshield that collects information about traffic conditions ahead including:
Types of lane markings.
Distance from the vehicle to road markings or road edges.
Curvature of the road.
Proximity to nearby vehicles.
Based on these inputs, Lane Assist will alert or actively provide steering intervention to correct the vehicle path.
Lane Assist Operation
Lane Assist has several modes of operation that can be selected in the Driver Assistance Page. Depending on which mode is selected one or more of the Lane Assist features will be activated.
The system will be automatically activated when the vehicle speed is between 60 km/h - 150 km/h.
For ELK Overtaking scenario the system will be automatically activated when the vehicle speed is between approximately 60 - 150 km/h.
* Maximum Limit as mentioned, is the feature of system, customer is liable to follow laws of the land as applicable while driving.
To access Lane Assist settings:
Tap  ADAS    in the Driver View area on the screen.
O r, Tap  App Library    >  Drive Aids  .
Tap  Driving Assistance    >  Lane.
Toggle Lane Assist (LA)  ON/OFF.  If Lane Assist (LA) is ON, you can choose from the options below:
Tap the toggle button to turn  ON/OFF  Auto-steer.
Tap on the Chime toggle to Mute/Unmute audio chime (audible warning).
Tap on the Haptics for alerts toggle to turn On/Off haptic feedback through steering wheel vibration (tactile alert).
Select the desired sensitivity level - Low/Medium/High.
NOTE
Lane Assist will default ON at every ignition cycle depending on the Market or User Profile selection. Please contact VinFast for more information on applicability for the Market.
To access Emergency Lane Keeping settings:
Tap  ADAS    in the Driver View area on the screen.
O r, Tap  App Library    >  Drive Aids  .
Tap  Driving Assistance    >  Lane.
Toggle Emergency Lane Keeping (ELK)  ON/OFF .
Tap on the Haptics for alerts toggle to turn On/Off haptic feedback through steering wheel vibration (tactile alert).
Lane Assist Displays and Warnings:
Depending on readiness and the presence and type of lane markings in front of the vehicle the Lane Assist system will project various indicators and alerts on the Infotainment Display.
The presence and color of lane markings for both the left and right side of the vehicle be displayed accordingly:
No Lane Detected - No lane lines are displayed
Lane(s) Detected - Lane Keeping Assist (LKA) and Emergency Lane Keeping (ELK) settings are disabled: Display lane markings only.
Lane(s) Detected - Lane Keeping Assist (LKA) or Emergency Lane Keeping (ELK) settings are enabled: Display a Black/White icon
Lane(s) Detected - Warning/Alert/Intervention:
Lane Departure Warning (LDW) Active: A yellow line, an alert sound and vibration feedback will appear throughout the event.
Lane Keeping Assist (LKA) Active: A single corrective steering adjustment with a mild intervention level will occur. This is indicated by a yellow icon  .
Emergency Lane Keeping Assist (ELK) Active: A notification message will be displayed on the central control screen along with a yellow icon  .
How to Deactivate Lane Assist:
The Lane Assist system is deactivated by any of the following conditions:
The speed of the vehicle is less than approximately 60 km/h.
The speed of the vehicle is over approximately 150 km/h.
* Maximum Limit as mentioned, is the feature of system, customer is liable to follow laws of the land as applicable while driving.
The driver uses the turn indicator while changing lanes.
Lost detection of lane markings.
Another active safety system intervenes (Anti-lock Braking System (ABS), Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
The quality of the detected two-lane lines is not high.
Driver override (apply high steering wheel rotation and steering override torque).
If Automatic Emergency Braking (AEB) is activated.
If Highway Assist (HWA) is activated, ELK is disabled.
Tyre pressure too low (Tyre alarm detected).
Traction Control System (TCS) is not available.
Trunk door or Bonnet door is Opened.
If Hazard lights are ON.
Turn of the Lane Assist.
When connect with trailer.
Vehicle is not running in forward (Gear shift position is not in D)
NOTE
A malfunction warning will be triggered when a failure is detected in the Lane Assist system and will be shown on the Infotainment screen to notify the driver.
WARNING
Do not rely completely on the Lane Assist System to keep the vehicle within its lane or avoid collisions with other vehicles.
Always pay attention to the road and maintain a proper vehicle position within the lane otherwise vehicle damage, injury, or death could occur.
The functions of Lane Assist have limitations. Always stay on course using the steering wheel and drive with care.
The Lane Assist system does not continuously steer the vehicle.
Lane assist system may not detect the lane marking, road edge properly because camera and radar is blocked or occluded by dirt, snow, or glared by high exposure light sources.
Lane Assist system may not detect lane markings in poor visibility conditions (rain, fog, snow, faded markings, etc.). The driver must always remain attentive and maintain safe control of the vehicle, without relying solely on the system.
It is recommended to turn the system OFF when driving on slippery roads. Otherwise, this could cause loss of control of the vehicle which can cause accidents.
Do not use or activate Lane Assist Systems when towing anything such as trailer, recreational vehicles, etc. Failure to comply may result in property damage, serious injury or death.
NOTE
Limitation of lane assist systems. Lane Assist may not operate properly or may operate unexpectedly under the following circumstances:
• The lane markings (or road edges) are complicated or a structure substitutes for the lines, such as a construction area etc.
• The lane suddenly disappears, such as at a junction etc.
• There is a boundary structure in the roadway, such as a tollgate, sidewalk, kerb, etc.
• The color of the lane marking (or road edge) is not distinguishable from the road.
• There are markings (or road edges) on the road looks similar like lanes (example faded lanes/ Road joints etc.)
• The lane marking (or road edge) is indistinct or damaged.
• The lane (or road width) is very wide or narrow.
• It is the driver’s responsibility to safely drive and control the vehicle. Do not solely rely on LKA/ELK and drive dangerously.
• If the vehicle is driven at high speed on curve road, the steering wheel may not be controlled. Driver should always be ready to take the control.
• When any Abnormality in steering control, observe function status in MHU/HUD and take control if necessary.

## Collision Avoidance

F-AEB - Front Automatic Emergency Brake
Front Automatic Emergency Braking (F-AEB) is designed to reduce the risk of frontal collisions. In the event that the system detects a delay or absence of deliberate reaction of the driver to an impending collision, it may automatically apply a strong brake to reduce the severity of the collision. F-AEB can detect cars, and vulnerable road users (pedestrians) (*)
Drivers must not rely solely on the performance of the F-AEB feature as it may malfunction or not perform as expected.
Drivers are responsible for remaining vigilant and in control of the vehicle at all times. Failure to do so may lead to damage, serious injury, harm or death. In situations where both the driver and F-AEB initiate braking deceleration, the maximum braking deceleration from both the driver and F-AEB will be selected and applied.
NOTE
When F-AEB is turned OFF a telltale will be shown in the Car Control Area to inform the driver.
When a new User Profile is created, F-AEB shall be initialized to OFF. Any subsequent user modification of the F-AEB setting shall be stored within that User Profile and restored after each ignition cycle until changed by the user.
F-AEB may reduce or cancel automatic emergency braking during an intervention when:
• The driver deliberately presses the accelerator pedal to override the braking intervention or makes a rapid steering input to change the vehicle’s direction.
• The system determines that the risk of collision is no longer imminent.
F-AEB operates efficiently​ when the vehicle travels​ at the speed between 10 km/h to 60 km/h.
F-AEB will not be activated for crossing cars, oncoming cars, cars traveling on the same direction at speed above 25 kph(**)​
F-AEB performance may be reduced, or the system may not operate as intended, in the following situations (**) :​
• In complex traffic or highly dynamic surroundings where vehicles, pedestrians, or other objects cannot be reliably detected or classified.​
• When pedestrians, vehicles, or other road users suddenly or rapidly move into the vehicle’s path.​
• When road users are close to, partially obscured by, or hidden behind other vehicles or objects.​
• When a pedestrian, vehicle, or other road user cannot be clearly distinguished from the background.​
• When driving through tight bends or during dynamic or aggressive driving.​
• When encountering large vehicles, such as trucks or buses, or vehicles with unusual shapes or configurations.​
• In complex driving situations, F-AEB may issue a warning or apply the brakes even when there is no immediate risk of collision. Always maintain a safe speed and sufficient distance from vehicles, pedestrians, and other road users. Do not rely solely on F-AEB to prevent a collision.​
• F-AEB braking intervention may be reduced or cancelled when the driver presses the brake pedal.​
• For safety reasons, F-AEB cannot be switched off using the On/Off control while the vehicle speed is above 10 km/h.
To enable/disable F-AEB:
Tap  ADAS    in the Driver View area on the screen.   Or, tap  App Library    >  Drive Aids  .
Tap  Collision Avoidance    .
Scroll down to find  Automatic Emergency Braking (AEB) .
Turn  Front  ON/OFF.
WARNING
Drivers must not rely solely on the performance of the F-AEB feature as it may malfunction or not always perform as expected.
Performance may vary based on road conditions or other factors. Even when it performs as expected, the feature may only reduce the severity of a collision.
Drivers are responsible for remaining vigilant and in control of the vehicle at all times. Failure to do so may lead to damage, serious injury, harm or death.
Features performance may be degraded or inoperative under varying conditions, including rain, snowfall, glare, dust, fog, condensation, low light, low visibility due to system limitations. F-AEB is inoperative at nighttime condition (**). Drivers must remain attentive and maintain full control of the vehicle at all times.​
F-AEB may not detect an impending collision and apply the brake if another vehicle or object is occluded, partially in its path, or if debris is present on the road. It is the driver’s responsibility to drive safely and remain in control of the vehicle at all times.
F-AEB does not avoid or mitigate collisions from the side of the vehicle, always pay attention while driving.
Do not use F-AEB as a substitute for foot braking.
Do not use or activate this feature when towing anything such as a trailer or recreational vehicle. Failure to comply may result in property damage, serious injury, or death.
(*) The object types detected by F-AEB may be extended through a future software update.
(**) Performance in these situations may be enhanced through future software updates.

## Collision Warning Systems

Forward Collision Warning
Forward Collision Warning (FCW) alerts the driver if an imminent frontal collision is detected with objects such as cars, motorcyclists, and vulnerable road users such as pedestrians, bicyclists (*)​. This feature does not actively intervene with braking or steering input. FCW takes information from radar and/or cameras to calculate the distance of objects from the vehicle in real time.
Forward Collision Warning Stages
FCW may be shown in the Driver View area in the following stages:
No warning - Preconditions are not satisfied or activation is not allowed.
Distance warning - A visual warning is shown.
Forward collision warning -  FCW icon  , and a warning prompt is shown, and a repeated chime sounds.
NOTE
If Automatic Emergency Braking (AEB) is ON, Forward Collision Warning (FCW) will automatically be turned on to warn the driver before any braking.​
Forward Collision Warning will default ON after each ignition cycle, depending on Market or User Profile selection. Please contact VinFast for more information on its applicability to your market.
FCW can operate effectively when the vehicle is traveling at the speed between 10 kph and 60 kph​
FCW will not be activated for crossing cars, oncoming cars, or cars traveling in the same direction at speed above 25 kph(**)​
FCW will not be activated for crossing motorcyclists traveling at speed above 25 kph(**)
FCW will not be activated for oncoming motorcyclist crossing the vehicle’s path during a turn when the motorcyclist’s speed or the vehicle speed exceeds 25 kph(**)
In some situations, the ability of FCW to detect objects may be limited:
• Objects located above the coverage area of the sensors (radars and/or cameras)​, such as garage doors that are partially open, or objects that are hanging.
• Low or occluded obstacle.
• Narrow objects, such as barrier chains, poles, or fences.
• Projecting objects, such as trailer draw bars.
• Objects with certain surfaces and structures, such as fabric.
To enable/disable​ the FCW:
Tap  ADAS    in the Driver View area on the screen.
O r, Tap  App Library    >  Drive Aids  .
Tap  Collision Avoidance    .
Toggle Forward Collision Warning (FCW)  ON/OFF .
Change the system sensitivity via the toggle button - Low/Medium/High.
NOTE
Detection and warning performance depend on the target object type, driving scenario, and vehicle speed.
FCW cannot be turned off using the On/Off toggle button when the vehicle speed exceeds 10 km/h
CAUTION
FCW can issue unnecessary warnings when its function is impaired, e.g., if the sensors (radars and/or cameras)​ are dirty or their positions have been changed. Always make sure that all the sensors (radars and/or cameras)​ in the vehicle are clean before driving.
Do not stick objects, such as stickers, films, or protectors, near or in front of radars and cameras.
WARNING The area being monitored by FCW can be adversely affected by road and weather conditions so always drive with caution.
FCW is designed only to provide visual and audible alerts. The system does not apply brakes or slow down the vehicle to avoid a collision. When seeing and/or hearing a warning, it is the driver’s responsibility to take immediate corrective action.
FCW may provide a warning in situations where the likelihood of collision may not exist. Do not depend completely on the system and always pay attention while driving to avoid any type of collision.
(*) The object types detected by FCW may be extended through a future software update.
(**) Performance in these conditions may be enhanced through a future software update.
Blind Spot Detection
Blind Spot Detection (BSD) is a driver assistance system that monitors the adjacent lanes next to the vehicle and warns if an object is present in the driver’s blind spot. It will warn for objects the driver cannot see and warn for objects that approach fast from behind. This feature does not actively intervene or provide steering input.
Using radar, Turn indicator and vehicle speed BSD detects objects in the blind spot and calculates the distance of these objects from the vehicle.
When a moving object is detected in the vehicle’s blind spot, the LED blind spot detection lamp   will illuminate on the corresponding side mirror. In addition, if the driver attempts to change lane, the LED blind spot detection lamp   will flash and an audible chime will sound.
The function will automatically activate as soon as vehicle speed is 20 km/h (12.4 mph) or greater.
When the ego vehicle is overtaking a target vehicle, BSD provides a warning when the relative speed is less than 15 km/h (9.3 mph).
To enable/disable BSD:
Tap  ADAS    in the Driver View area on the screen.
O r, Tap  App Library    >  Drive Aids  .
Tap  Collision Avoidance    .
Scroll down to find  Blind Spot Detection (BSD) .
Toggle Blind Spot Detection (BSD)  ON/OFF .
Tap on the Chime toggle to Mute/Unmute audio chime (audible warning).
NOTE
Blind Spot Detection and the BSD chime are ON by default at each ignition cycle depending on Market or User Profile selection. Please contact VinFast for more information on applicable for the market.
Conditions under which the BSD may not function correctly​
BSD may not correctly detect vehicles and/or objects in the following conditions:
Bad weather such as heavy rain, fog, snow etc.
Ice or mud etc. attached to the rear bumper.
Driving on a road surface that is wet due to rain, standing water, etc.
There is a significant difference in speed between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area.
A vehicle is in the detection area from a stop and remains in the detection area as your vehicle accelerates.
Driving up or down consecutive steep inclines, such as hills or a dip in the road, etc.
Multiple vehicles approaching with only a small gap between each vehicle.
Vehicle lanes are wide, and the vehicle in the next lane is too far away from your vehicle.
The vehicle that enters the detection area is traveling at about the same speed as your vehicle.
There is a significant difference in height between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area.
Towing a trailer (if available).
Vehicles traveling in the opposite direction​.
BSD may unnecessarily detect a vehicle and/or objects under the following conditions:
Short distance between your vehicle and guardrails, walls, signs, parked vehicles and similar stationary objects.
Short distance between your vehicle and a following vehicle.
Vehicle lanes are narrow and a vehicle driving two lanes across from your vehicle enters the detection area.
Items such as a bicycle carrier that are installed on the rear of the vehicle.
Warning timing may vary depending on the vehicle that is approaching.
System Malfunction Warnings
If a fault is detected with the BSD system or an associated ADAS system, it will trigger an alert message on the Infotainment screen to alert the driver. If a malfunction alert is displayed, some or all of the system functionality may be impacted.
WARNING The driver is fully responsible for changing lanes carefully and for checking if it is safe to do so.
Drivers must not solely rely on BSD as the feature may malfunction and may not always perform as expected.
The system may not provide alerts under all driving conditions, including when driving around tight curves.
The system also does not alert drivers to vehicles outside of the detection zones.
Performance may also vary based on other conditions or factors.
Drivers are responsible for remaining vigilant and in control of the vehicle at all times. Failure to do so may lead to damage, serious injury, harm or death.
CAUTION
The detection range may vary depending on the speed of the vehicle. Even if there is a vehicle in a blind spot zone, BSD may not activate a warning when passing at high speed.
The BSD sensors may become impaired by mud, rain, frost, ice or other factor. Performance may be subsequently affected and not alert the driver to vehicles in the lane on either side. Always keep sensors clean and remain vigilant at all times.
Warning timing may vary depending on the speed of the vehicle that is approaching.
Rear Cross Traffic Alert
Rear Cross Traffic Alert (RCTA) is a driver assistance system that warns drivers of an imminent collision from object crossing on the reverse trajectory of rear vehicle of the vehicle while reversing. This feature does not actively intervene via steering input or braking but provides both audible and visual alerts.
RCTA uses radar sensors in the rear corners of the vehicle to detect moving objects that are approaching including the following:
Vehicles
Motorcycles
Bicycles
CAUTION
The RCTA function will not generate warnings for stationary objects or objects that are not road users, e.g. light poles, garbage containers etc.
Pedestrians may or may not be detected based on size and/or clothing.
RCTA Operation
RCTA Visual and Audible Alerts
Depending on the situation, the RCTA warning will appear on the left, right, or both sides of the rear camera viewport.
The LED blind spot detection lamp   will illuminate on the corresponding side mirror closest to the oncoming object. In addition, if the collision risk increases, the LED blind spot detection lamp   will flash and an audible chime will sound.
RCTA Activation
The function is available when the following conditions are met:
The gear mode is in Reverse (R) or Neutral (N).
Ego vehicle speed is 18 km/h (11.2 mph) or less.
The RCTA system is turned on.
NOTE
Rear Cross Traffic Alert is ON by default at each ignition cycle.
To enable/disable RCTA:
Tap  ADAS    in the Driver View area on the screen.
O r, Tap  App Library    >  Drive Aids  .
Tap  Collision Avoidance    .
Scroll down to find  Cross Traffic Alert (CTA) .
Turn  Rear  ON/OFF.
Conditions under which the RCTA may not function correctly​​
RCTA may not detect correctly vehicles and/or objects in the following conditions:
Bad weather such as heavy rain, fog, snow etc.
Ice or mud etc. attached to the rear bumper.
Driving on a road surface that is wet due to rain, standing water, etc.
There is a significant difference in speed between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area.
A vehicle is in the detection area from a stop and remains in the detection area as your vehicle accelerates.
Driving up or down consecutive steep inclines, such as hills or a dip in the road, etc.
Multiple vehicles approaching with only a small gap between each vehicle.
Vehicle lanes are wide, and the vehicle in the next lane is too far away from your vehicle.
The vehicle that enters the detection area is traveling at about the same speed as your vehicle.
There is a significant difference in height between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area.
Directly after the BSD main switch is set to ON.
Towing a trailer (if avaliable).
Vehicles traveling in the opposite direction​.
RCTA may unnecessarily detect a vehicle and/or objects under the following conditions:
Short distance between your vehicle and guardrails, walls, signs, parked vehicles and similar stationary objects.
Short distance between your vehicle and a following vehicle.
Vehicle lanes are narrow and a vehicle driving two lanes across from your vehicle enters the detection area.
Items such as a bicycle carrier that are installed on the rear of the vehicle.
Warning timing may vary depending on the vehicle that is approaching.
System Faults:
In the event of a RCTA fault, a warning will be displayed on the Infotainment screen. Vehicle alert details can be viewed in the Service app.
See >   Services > Vehicle Status  .
WARNING Do not rely completely on RCTA to detect a potential collision, always check the surrounding area before reversing.
RCTA warning timing may vary depending on the speed of approaching vehicle.
Use the side mirrors and check surroundings for vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles or pedestrians that may be approaching the vehicle from the rear.
The system may not react if objects are approaching rapidly.
RCTA will not provide alerts if your vehicle is parallel parked or if your vehicle is pulled too far into the parking space so that it is hidden by adjacent vehicles.
The RCTA chime may not be heard if the surrounding area is noisy.
CAUTION
The sensors may become impaired by mud, rain, frost or ice and fail to detect approaching objects. Always ensure all sensors and cameras in the vehicle are clean prior to driving.
Door Opening Warning
Door Opening Warning (DOW) is a driver assistance system that warns occupants inside a stationary vehicle when other road users are approaching the vehicle from the rear and collision risk is high. The system assists occupants to safely exit a vehicle and prevent serious accidents associated with vehicle doors opening in front of oncoming traffic.
DOW uses radars in the rear bumpers to detect oncoming traffic. If an oncoming vehicle is detected, occupants will be alerted via LEDs on the side mirrors. ﻿Additionally, ambient lighting (if available) will be used as a warning mechanism in combination with directional audible warnings for all occupants inside the vehicle.
NOTE
The DOW Function will not generate warnings for stationary target objects and elements.
The DOW alert will persist as long as the target object fulfills the warning conditions.
Door Opening Warning Operation
When Door Opening Warning (DOW) is active the following will occur:
An   icon will be shown on the corresponding door side view mirror.
If the impacted door is opened, this icon will start flashing and a chime will be heard.
If the corresponding door is closed and an oncoming object is still detected, then the mirror icon will remain and the flashing and chime will cease.
Depending on the situation, the DOW warning will also appear on the left, right, or both sides of the vehicle icon on the screen.
Door Opening Warning (DOW) activates:
When vehicle speed is less than 1.8 km/h.
The approaching vehicle speed is more than 6.84 km/h
Door Opening Warning (DOW) deactivates:
When vehicle speed is greater than 1.8 km/h.
The approaching vehicle speed is less than 6.84 km/h
To enable/disable Door Opening Warning (DOW) :
Tap  ADAS    in the Driver View area on the screen.   OR tap  App Library    >  Drive Aids  .
Tap  Collision Avoidance    .
Scroll down to find  Door Opening Warning (DOW) .
Turn this feature ON/OFF.
Tap on the Auto-lock door toggle to enable or disable the automatic door locking function.
NOTE
After each ignition cycle, the Door Opening Warning system will default to Warning Only mode.
The feature works before and shortly after ignition OFF, around 30 minutes.
Conditions under which the DOW may not function correctly​​
DOW may not detect correctly vehicles and/or objects in the following conditions:
Bad weather such as heavy rain, fog, snow etc.
Ice or mud etc. attached to the rear bumper.
Driving on a road surface that is wet due to rain, standing water, etc.
There is a significant difference in speed between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area.
A vehicle is in the detection area from a stop and remains in the detection area as your vehicle accelerates.
Driving up or down consecutive steep inclines, such as hills or a dip in the road, etc.
Multiple vehicles approaching with only a small gap between each vehicle.
Vehicle lanes are wide, and the vehicle in the next lane is too far away from your vehicle.
The vehicle that enters the detection area is traveling at about the same speed as your vehicle.
There is a significant difference in height between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area.
Directly after the BSD main switch is set to ON.
Towing a trailer (if available).
Vehicles traveling in the opposite direction​.
DOW may unnecessarily detect a vehicle and/or objects under the following conditions:
Short distance between your vehicle and guardrails, walls, signs, parked vehicles and similar stationary objects.
Short distance between your vehicle and a following vehicle.
Vehicle lanes are narrow and a vehicle driving two lanes across from your vehicle enters the detection area.
Items such as a bicycle carrier that are installed on the rear of the vehicle.
Warning timing may vary depending on the vehicle that is approaching.
System Faults
A malfunction warning will be triggered when a failure is detected in the DOW system or with other related ADAS systems and will be shown on the Infotainment screen to notify the driver.
WARNING Opening a door when an object is approaching may cause damage or personal injury. Always use the side mirrors and complete a head check to watch for vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles or pedestrians that may be approaching the vehicle.
Door Opening Warning is a driver assistance function only. It does not replace the driver’s or occupants’ responsibility to check for approaching traffic before opening a door.
CAUTION
The rear sensors may become blocked by mud, rain, frost or ice and fail to detect approaching objects. Always ensure sensors are clean before starting driving.

## Park Assist

Front & Rear Parking Assist
The Front & Rear Parking Assist system assists the driver when parking by alerting them to surrounding objects. The system provides audible alerts to inform and warn the driver. Park Assist (PA) sensors are located on both the front and rear bumpers to identify surrounding obstacles.
CAUTION
Do not push, scratch or strike a sensor as this may cause damage.
Do not spray the sensor or its surrounding area directly with high pressure water.
NOTE
Ensure all park assist sensors are free from the build up of snow, ice, dirt or mud which may impact their operation. For details on cleaning the sensors. See >   Vehicle Care > Radar, Sensor, and Camera Care  .
Front Parking Assist (if equipped)
Front Parking Assist (FPA) is a driver assistance system that warns the driver of nearby objects (including the sidewalk) in front of the vehicle when parking.
Rear Parking Assist
Rear Parking Assist (RPA) is a driver assistance system that warns the driver of nearby objects (including the sidewalk) behind the vehicle when parking.
Parking Assist status
When the system detects an object, the related area on the screen will be highlighted. As the vehicle gets closer to the object, the color of this area will change from yellow to red. At the same time, the system will sound a warning. As the distance to the object decreases, the beeps will sound faster. When the vehicle is very close to the object, the beeps may become a continuous tone.
CAUTION
The Front & Rear Parking Assist is not a safety system, and its design intention is to provide assistance during parking. Even if used, the system cannot replace your attention and judgment.
NOTE
The Parking assist chime  shall be automatically muted when car is at very low speed or stationary
To activate Front & Rear Parking Assist:
Front Parking Assist is automatically activated when vehicle’s speed is less than 10 km/h and the gear is in Drive (D).
Rear Parking Assist is automatically activated when the gear is in Reverse (R) or when the car is rolling back.
NOTE
When Car Wash Mode is active, the parking assist system will be temporarily disabled without any warnings. The system will restore automatically when Car Wash Mode is exited.
To turn ON/OFF Parking Assist chime:
Tap Mute icon when available on Driver View Area.
NOTE
Parking Assist chime Mute/Unmute button only displays when Parking Assist is activated.
Park Assist Faults
If a fault is detected, the parking assist system will display a warning message on the infotainment screen, and the function may be degraded or disabled as needed.
If a Park Assist sensor has a fault due to dirt or a blockage, clean the impacted sensor.
There are situations in which the Parking Assist system might operate unexpectedly:
Uneven road condition, gravel roads, rails, repairing road or fallen leaves on the road.
Driving in incline/decline conditions.
Driving in the flooded road.
After sales toolkit such as bumper protector etc. is installed in the bumpers.
Driving in bad weather such as heavy rain, fog, snow or a sandstorm.
Driving in the heavy traffic jam condition.
Driving in strong wind are blowing, or beside a big car (truck, bus etc).
The orientation ultrasonic sensor has been changed due to collision or other impacts.
WARNING
The driver must always remain alert and in full control of the vehicle at all times including during parking maneuvers.
Park Assist may not detect potholes, trenches or drains.
Under certain conditions, ultrasonic waves may be absorbed or deflected by soft surfaces, angled objects, clothing, or external noise sources, causing the system to miss or inaccurately detect obstacles. Extra caution is required with low-height obstacles that may not be reliably detected and could damage the lower bumper.
Always check the surrounding area when reversing and using the Rear Parking Assist System.
It is not recommended to use or activate Rear Parking Assist when towing anything such as trailer, recreational vehicles, etc. Failure to comply may result in property damage, serious injury or death.
Rear View Camera
The Rear View Camera is used to display the area behind the vehicle and to assist with reversing or parking. The system uses a camera mounted above the rear license plate and displays an image on the Infotainment screen.
How to Activate the Rear View Camera
The Rear View Camera is automatically activated when reverse gear is selected.
The Rear View Camera can also be activated manually by tapping the Camera   icon in App View on the infotainment screen.
When Reverse (R) gear is selected, the parking assist is also activated and provides guidelines and audio feedback during parking. See >   Front & Rear Parking Assist  .
The dynamic guidelines show the driving path relative to the steering wheel position.
How to Deactivate the Rear View Camera
The Rear View Camera is automatically deactivated if the driver disengages Reverse (R) gear or when vehicle speed is higher than or equal to 25 km/h in Drive (D) gear (Can also manually deactivate the camera by tapping the  X  button on the infotainment screen).
NOTE
The Rear View Camera cannot be deactivated while the vehicle is in Reverse (R) gear.
WARNING
Keep the Rear View Camera lenses clear, as unclear lenses will impact vision and objects may not be detected leading to a collision.
Always check vehicle surroundings while using the Rear View Camera as camera(s) may not always detect objects or barriers that can potentially cause damage or injury.
The camera(s) may not display children, pedestrians, cyclists, traffic, animals, or any other objects outside of the camera’s field of view.
The distance of images displayed may vary from actual.
Do not obstruct the Rear View Camera by installing objects, such as a bumper sticker or a bumper guard, near the Rear View Camera.
360 Surround View Monitoring
The 360 Surround View Monitoring System uses multiple cameras along with graphical markings to assist the driver in low-speed parking maneuvers.
The system works in parallel with the Park Assist System and provides multiple viewing options from cameras mounted in the Side Mirrors, under Hood, and Liftgate. Depending on the display mode, some of these views are combined to provide a complete 360-degree view around the vehicle. ﻿Camera locations are shown below:
NOTE
To ensure optimum system performance, please ensure each camera is free from dirt or obstruction.
Performance of the Surround View Monitor may be reduced in heavy fog conditions.
WARNING
The driver has full responsibility for vehicle operation while using the Surround View Monitoring System.
Areas near the corners of the vehicle may be obscured from camera view, resulting in some surrounding objects not being detected.
Do not fold in the outside mirrors of the vehicle when using Surround View Monitoring. Doing so will limit the effectiveness of the vehicle’s side cameras and display performance.
Objects and obstacles above the cameras are not displayed.
Surround View Monitoring is designed to be used on a flat surface. Roads with different heights such as curbs and speed bumps may look different on the Infotainment screen display.
Always check vehicle surroundings. Failure to comply may result in property damage, serious injury or death.
Surround View Monitor Operation
To activate the Surround View Monitoring System:
Pressing on Camera app   in App Library. This button will be disabled & dimmed when speed condition not met
Shifting to R (always)
To deactivate the Surround View Monitoring System:
The Surround View Monitoring (SVM) will be deactivated under any of the following conditions:
The vehicle is shifted to D (Drive) and the vehicle speed reaches or exceeds 25 km/h.
The Home button is pressed.
The vehicle is shifted to P (Park) or N (Neutral) while the camera was automatically activated in R (Reverse); if the gear is shifted from R to D, the SVM will remain active and switch to the Front View instead of closing.
The X button in the Camera view is pressed.
NOTE
The Surround View Monitoring cannot be deactivated while the vehicle is in Reverse (R) gear.
Camera Display Modes﻿ and Settings
The Surround View Monitoring System offers several camera views and display modes.
Close button
Top view
3D button
Front view button
Rear view button
Camera view
Tire view
Setting button
Front Camera View
Front Camera view provides vision from the front of the vehicle.
The following operations can be performed in Front Camera view:
Double tap ground in 3D view to switch to 3D Expanded view
Tap the Front view button   to change to Front Junction view.
Tap the Rear view button   to change to Rear Camera view.
If 3D view is in bird’s eye view state, tap the 3D button   to change to 3D Expanded view.
Rear Camera View
Rear Camera view provides vision from behind the vehicle and is automatically shown when Reverse (R) is selected.
The following operations can be performed in Rear Camera view:
Double tap ground in 3D view to switch to 3D Expanded view
Tap the Front view button   to change to Front Camera view.
Tap the Rear view button   to change to Rear Junction view.
If 3D view is in bird’s eye view state, tap the 3D button   to change to 3D Expanded view.
Front/Rear Junction View
The following operations can be performed in Front/Rear Junction view:
Tap the 3D button   to change to 3D Expanded view.
Tap the Front view button   to change to Front Camera view.
Tap the Rear view button   to change to Rear Camera view.
Double tapping on Front/Rear Junction Camera view changes to Front/Rear Camera view.
Top View
The following operations can be performed in Top view:
Swipe around the vehicle to rotate the view.
Swipe toward or away from the vehicle to change the camera angle.
Pinch to zoom in or out.
Double tap the vehicle model to toggle vehicle transparency.
In 3D Expanded view, tap the Front view button   to return to Front Camera view, tap the Rear view button   to return to Rear Camera view, double tap ground to return to previous minimized view.
If 3D view is in bird’s eye view state, tap the 3D button   to change to 3D Expanded view.
Camera Settings:
Tap Setting button   to turn on or off the following features in the camera settings view:
Dynamic Guidelines
Blind Spot Camera
Obstacle Overlay
Door Open Overlay
Trailer Overlay
WARNING
The camera system is limited to displaying surrounding images around the vehicle. Some obstacles outside of this will not be shown. Always check your surroundings and park with care.
The camera(s) may not display children, pedestrians, cyclists, crossing traffic, animals, or any other object outside of the camera’s field of view.

## Other

AHB - Automatic High Beam
Automatic High Beam (AHB) is a driver assistance feature that supports correct use of the vehicle’s high beam headlights. It automatically turns high beam ON when the road ahead is sufficiently dark and turns high beam OFF when oncoming or preceding vehicles are detected to help prevent glare and inconvenience to other drivers. The system will also automatically turn high beam OFF in areas with sufficient lighting, such as urban areas with adequate street lighting. The AHB system receives information about objects located within the field of view of the front windshield camera.
The following scenarios will cause the AHB system to switch from high beam to low beam:
If oncoming or preceding vehicles are detected.
In urban areas with sufficient streetlights, at junctions with traffic lights or in tunnels.
The AHB system will turn the high beam back ON once the conditions listed above are no longer detected and the operating conditions are met.
NOTE
AHB is activated when the vehicle speed is at or above 40 km/h (25 mph), and is deactivated when the vehicle speed is below 25 km/h (15 mph).
The vehicle headlight control must be set to AUTO to enable the Automatic High Beam feature.
To activate/deactivate the Auto High Beam feature:
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap Settings   > Light Settings   > Exterior.
Use the toggle button to turn the feature On/Off.
NOTE
Pushing or pulling the lighting stalk will override the AHB system.
The AHB system uses the front windshield camera to detect oncoming and preceding lights of vehicles, motorcycles, and bicycles.
NOTE
The AHB system may not detect all types of vehicles or road users.
WARNING
Do not use high beam when oncoming traffic is present. Doing so may distract oncoming drivers leading to an accident.
Do not rely completely on the AHB feature. The vehicle may not detect oncoming vehicles in all conditions. Always check for oncoming vehicles and switch to low beam when required.
Automatic headlights are only intended to assist the driver. Full control of vehicle headlights always remains the responsibility of the driver.
NOTE
Do not cover the front windshield camera.
Do not clean the front windshield camera sensor with window cleaner or hazardous solutions, as this may leave a film that can affect sensor operation.
Do not apply any coating on the front windshield, as this may affect AHB headlight performance.
A light sensor is located on top of the windshield. Make sure the sensor is not covered or obstructed, as this may cause headlights to operate when not required.
Use manual operation to turn ON the headlights if required when driving at night in rain, fog, tunnels, or parking facilities.
DMS - Driver Monitoring System (DDAW / ADDW) (if equipped)
Driver Monitoring System (DMS) helps monitor driver alertness and attention while driving. The system can provide Driver Drowsiness Warning (DDAW) if it detects signs of fatigue, and Advanced Driver Distraction Warning (ADDW) if it detects that the driver is not paying sufficient attention to the road. These features are designed to assist the driver and do not replace safe driving practices.
Driver monitoring images are processed inside the vehicle only. The system does not upload camera images or driver monitoring data to the cloud.
The system can detect drowsiness or tiredness in a driver based on a combination of the following:
Eye tracking, such as blink duration, eye movement, and eye closure frequency.
Head tracking, such as head position and head movement.
Facial behavior, such as yawning or squinting.
Vehicle speed.
Time of day.
Lane departure warning frequency.
The system can detect signs of distraction if the driver:
Has been driving for a long time.
Looks away from the road for too long.
Uses a phone while driving.
Does not keep attention on the road ahead.
Takes hands off the steering wheel.
NOTE
The Driver Monitoring System is automatically enabled with vehicle HV power and cannot be manually disabled by the driver.
Certain sunglasses, especially those with dark or infrared-blocking lenses, may reduce the camera’s ability to detect the driver’s eyes and may affect system performance.
Driver Monitoring Settings
To enable/disable Driver Drowsiness Monitoring (DDM):
Tap  ADAS    in the Driver View area on the screen.
O r, Tap  App Library    >  Drive Aids  .
Tap  Driving Assistance    >  Driving.
Toggle Driver Drowsiness Monitoring (DDM)  ON/OFF .
Tap on the Chime toggle to Mute/Unmute audio chime (audible warning).
To enable/disable Driver Attention Monitoring (DAM):
Tap  ADAS    in the Driver View area on the screen.
O r, Tap  App Library    >  Drive Aids  .
Tap  Driving Assistance    >  Driving.
Toggle Driver Attention Monitoring (DAM)  ON/OFF .
Tap on the Chime toggle to Mute/Unmute audio chime (audible warning).
Select the desired sensitivity level - Low/Medium/High.
NOTE
For markets subject to GSR2 (General Safety Regulation) requirements, certain Driver Monitoring System functions may be enabled by default and cannot be completely disabled.
Driver Monitoring System Alert Types
DMS system will generate alerts if it detects that:
The driver has been driving for a long time.
The driver is drowsy.
The driver’s hands are off the steering wheel.
The driver is using a phone while driving.
The driver is not looking at the road.
The alert will be displayed on the infotainment screen together with visual and audio alerts.
WARNING Always drive carefully and do not rely completely on Driver Monitoring System.
Do not drive the vehicle if you feel tired. Always take a break in these situations to avoid the risk of vehicle accident, injury or death.
In some situations, the DMS may not be able to correctly identify the driver’s state.
DMS performance may be reduced if the driver monitoring camera or infrared light emitters are blocked, if the driver is wearing sunglasses, if the driver’s eyes are hidden behind eyeglass frames, or if the driver is wearing a mask that prevents the system from correctly identifying the driver’s state.

# Driving


## Starting & Shutting Down Vehicle

Starting the Vehicle
Carrying the correct remote key is necessary to unlock and start the vehicle.
To Start Driving the Vehicle:
Unlock and open the driver’s door, and make sure the vehicle has detected the remote key inside.
Press the brake pedal  , “READY” will be displayed on the screen indicating the vehicle is ON.
Ensure all doors, tailgate and front hood are closed, toggle the gear shift lever   up or down to Reverse (R)/Drive (D), and at this time, the vehicle’s EPB function will automatically be released.
Press accelerator pedal   and the vehicle begins to move.
CAUTION
The above operation must be followed to start the car normally. When it cannot start normally, check if the above operation is correct.
Before starting the vehicle, please check and confirm that the seats, steering wheel, and exterior mirrors are adjusted to a safe and comfortable position, and that the brake pedal can be pressed normally.
To Power OFF the Vehicle:
Press the brake pedal   until the vehicle has come to a complete stop.
Press the Park (P)   button.
Ensure all doors, tailgate and front hood are closed, lock the vehicle after leaving with the remote key, the vehicle will automatically power OFF﻿.
WARNING
Do not shift gears while the vehicle is in motion.
Do not accelerate while engaging a gear.
Do not press the accelerator pedal and brake pedal at the same time.
Ensure that all occupants fasten their seatbelt before driving the vehicle.
NOTE
The cooling fan and pump may be heard and remain operating for a period of time after the vehicle has stopped and been locked. This is normal vehicle operation and could be result of:
• The vehicle High Voltage Battery is charging the low voltage (12V) battery.
• The vehicle is in the process of cooling the High Voltage electric motor.
• The vehicle is in the process of a firmware over the air (FOTA) software update.
If this noise continues for an extended period of time, contact the nearest VinFast Service to have the vehicle inspected.
Vehicle Power Mode Information
The vehicle consists of three power modes:
OFF - vehicle is powered OFF and no accessories or vehicle drive gears are available.
Accessory (ACC) - Unlock the vehicle and open the doors, and the vehicle enters ACC mode. At this time, the accessory power mode is activated, allowing access to the infotainment functions on the screen.
ON (Ready) - The vehicle has detected the remote key and pressed the brake pedal, and the vehicle is in P/N gear. The accessory and vehicle drive power are both turned on.
Low Key Fob Battery
If the remote Key Fob battery is weak, the vehicle can still be started.
To Start the Vehicle:
Place the key in the Console Armrest storage area as shown.
Press the brake pedal and select Drive (D) or Reverse (R) gear.
CAUTION
If the vehicle still fails to start after replacing the key fob battery, please contact the VinFast Service Center.

## Drive Systems

Transmission Gear Selector
The vehicle Transmission Gear selector is used to engage different vehicle gear positions, which include Park (P), Reverse (R), Neutral (N) and Drive (D).
The Transmission Gear Selector is located on the right side of the steering wheel.
Park (P): Press the button on the side of the lever to for Park gear.
Drive (D): Push the gear lever down to the maximum position for Drive gear.
Reverse (R): Push the gear lever up to the maximum position for Reverse gear.
Neutral (N): Shift the gear lever to center for Neutral (N) gear.
To select a gear position:
Depress the brake pedal and ensure the vehicle is stationary or has come to a complete stop.
Move the lever to select the desired gear.
The selected gear will be displayed on the screen.
WARNING
Do not speed up while engaging a gear.
Do not press the accelerator pedal and brake pedal at the same time.
Never leave the vehicle unattended while the power is ON.
It is prohibited to use N gear for vehicle coasting while driving.
CAUTION
When the gear is in N gear, the brake pedal should be pressed to prevent slipping.
NOTE
When the driver door is open and Auto Gear P mode is active, the gear lever cannot be shifted into Drive (D) or Reverse (R).
Neutral
In Neutral (N), your vehicle rolls freely when no brakes are applied. Neutral (N) can be used to allow the vehicle to be maneuvered in a workshop environment or to be moved onto a towing truck.
CAUTION
Shifting to Neutral (N) will disable regenerative braking resulting in greater than normal brake pressure being required.
Shifting to Neutral (N) should only be done while a driver is present to apply the vehicle brakes when necessary.
Drive Modes
The vehicle is equipped with multiple driving modes, which can be selected to change the acceleration response and power transmission of the vehicle. The driving mode can be changed through the Infotainment screen.
Available Driving Modes are:
ECO
NORMAL
SPORT
To select a Driving Mode:
Tap  Drive Mode    on the Driver View Area to access the Driving Preferences interface.
Tap to select the desired drive mode.
NOTE
Reasonable use of driving modes can improve power/range economy.
Creep Mode
Creep mode is suitable for driving at lower speeds in stop and go traffic or parking lots. After activating this function, the vehicle will move slowly in the selected direction of travel without the need to press the accelerator pedal.
To activate/deactivate creep mode:
Tap  Drive Mode    on the Driver View Area to access the Driving Preferences interface.
Scroll down to find  Creep Mode .
Toggle creep mode ON/OFF.
WARNING
Do not rely on creep mode to prevent your vehicle from rolling down a hill. Keep your foot firmly on the brake pedal if you wish to remain stationary or on the accelerator pedal if you wish to ascend a hill. Failure to do so may result in accident causing serious injury or death.
Auto Gear P
When the function is activated, it allows the system to automatically switch from Drive (D) or Reverse (R) to Park Mode:
When the vehicle has fully stopped and the driver door is opened, and both the brake pedal and the accelerator pedal are released.
To activate/deactivate Auto Gear P:
Tap  Drive Mode    on the Driver View Area to access the Driving Preferences interface.
Scroll down to find  Auto Gear P .
Toggle Auto Gear P ON/OFF.
WARNING
Always ensure that the vehicle is securely parked before exiting.

## Steering Wheel

Adjustment
Prior to operating the vehicle, it is important to adjust the steering wheel to achieve a comfortable driving position. For additional information regarding a correct seating position, see > Seats >   Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions  .
For an ideal steering position:
The driver always ensures the safest and most comfortable distance from the steering wheel.
The driver should have a clear view of the area around the vehicle.
The driver should always hold the steering wheel with both hands on the outer edges (9 o’clock and 3 o’clock positions) while driving.
Adjustable Steering Column
The Steering Wheel can be adjusted manually forward/backward   and up/down  , as per requirement.
To adjust the steering position:
Push the lever   down to unlock the steering column.
Adjust the steering wheel to preferred position.
Pull up the lever   to lock the steering column in the adjusted position.
WARNING
Do not make steering wheel adjustments when the vehicle is in motion.
Ensure the steering wheel column is secured in locked position before driving.
Do not control the steering wheel by the horn pad. If the Airbag deploys it may result in injury to the driver’s arms, hands and head.
Do not sit close to the steering wheel when driving. In an event of a collision this may interfere with the deployment of Airbags and may increase the risk of occupant injury.
The steering wheel is equipped with a Hand Off Detection (HOD) sensor. Do not cover it with plastic, carbon fiber, plaster, or any other obstructive materials that may interfere with the sensor’s functionality. Damage caused by improper use or failure to follow these instructions will not be covered under warranty.
Steering Wheel Switches
The steering wheel controls provide quick access to a range of vehicle and infotainment functions, enabling operation of key features without taking your attention away from the road to interact with the screen.
No
Action
Function
Short press
Increase/Decrease Gap
Short press
Open/Close SVM camera
Short press
Start/activate the set FAV (Favorite) function
Long press
Open menu for changing FAV (Favorite) button
Up
Cruise Set Speed + / Resume
Down
Cruise Set Speed -
Short press
OK/Confirm an ADAS prompt
Short press
Menu left/right
Previous/Next song/station/fav station
Long press
Menu left/right quickly
Scrub/(Seek if radio) backwards/forwards
Short press
Start Vivi voice assistant
Long press
Start AA/CP voice assistant
Up
Volume increase / Menu up / Adjust side mirror upward
Down
Volume decrease / Menu down / Adjust side mirror downward
Short press
Confirm the popup
Play/Pause media
Answer incoming call / End ongoing call
Long press
Global Mute
Short press
Switch to the next Widget on the Entertainment area on IPC (if equipped)
WARNING
Do not rely completely on Driving Aids as they are not a substitute for appropriate levels of driver attention and judgment. The driver is always responsible to ensure the vehicle is driven in a safe manner.
Read all the relevant sections in the Owner’s Manual and become familiar with all steering wheel controls prior to driving to avoid distraction.

## Mirrors

Side Mirrors
Mirrors mounted on the side of the vehicle provide the driver with visibility behind and to the left and right sides of the vehicle.
Mirror Adjustment
Tap  Settings    >  Vehicle Settings    >  Side Mirrors.  OR, Tap  Mirrors    in the Driver View area on the screen.
Select  Left/Right  side mirror to adjust position.
Use the physical buttons on the steering wheel for adjustment.
When the mirror positions are changed by adjusting the side mirror positions in App View window, tap  Save position , and the mirror position will be stored against the current user profile. The  Restore  button is available when a saved mirror position exists and the current mirror position differs from the saved position. Tapping  Restore  returns the mirrors to the saved position.
Mirror Fold/Unfold
Tap  Settings    >  Vehicle Settings    >  Side Mirrors.  OR, Tap  Mirrors    in the Driver View area on the screen.
Select  Fold both/Unfold both  button to fold/unfold the side mirrors.
Heated Mirrors (if equipped)
The heated side mirror feature reduces the effects of fogging and ice buildup on both the exterior side mirrors ensuring clear visibility. Side mirror heating is activated/deactivated automatically when the Rear Demist feature is turned ON/OFF. See >   Climate Control System > Rear Demist  .
Auto Fold
Automatic folding of vehicle side mirrors when locking the doors.
To turn Auto Fold feature ON/OFF:
Tap  Settings    >  Vehicle Settings    >  Side Mirrors.  OR, Tap  Mirrors    in the Driver View area on the screen.
Toggle Auto Fold. Tap to  Off/On .
Automatic Mirror Tilt in Reverse
The side mirrors can automatically tilt downward to aid in parking when Reverse (R) gear is selected. When Drive (D), Park (P), or Neutral (N) gear is selected, the mirrors will return to their normal set orientation.
To turn Mirror Tilt feature ON/OFF:
Tap  Settings    >  Vehicle Settings    >  Side Mirrors.  OR, Tap  Mirrors    in the Driver View area on the screen.
Tap the toggle button to turn on the feature.
WARNING
Before driving always check that the mirrors are adjusted correctly for your driving position .
Make sure that the blind spot location is clear during parking, changing lanes, turning, or overtaking other vehicles. It may cause accident, injury or even death.
Do not drive with exterior side mirrors folded. Ensure that the mirrors are positioned correctly and that the rear view is not restricted by ice, snow, condensation, or other objects.
Do not place your hand near the base of the mirror during mirror folding operation as your fingers may get caught between the exterior mirror and the mirror base.
NOTE
In the case of an electrical malfunction, the mirrors can be adjusted by gently pressing on the edges of the mirror glass.
Rear View Mirror
Use the rear view mirror to view of the area behind the vehicle through the vehicle’s rear window.
Mirror Adjustment
The rear view mirror position can be adjusted manually by hand. Adjust the rear view mirror when the vehicle is stationary and while seated in the correct driving position for a clear view of the area behind the vehicle.
WARNING
Do not adjust the rear view mirror while driving. Doing so can cause distraction leading to an accident, resulting in death or serious injury.
Do not place objects in the rear seat, cargo area, or behind the rear head restraints which could obstruct vision through the rear window.
CAUTION
Do not spray glass cleaner directly on the mirror as this may damage it. Use a soft towel dampened with water.
NOTE
Before driving, always adjust the rear view mirror for a clear view of the area behind the vehicle.
Automatic Dimming
While driving at night, the Rear View Mirror Automatic Dimming feature reduces the headlight glare of vehicles behind.
NOTE
The Auto Dimming function uses an ambient light sensor at the rear of the electrochromic mirror. Always keep the sensor and other mirror surfaces clean and free from obstructions for proper Auto Dimming operation.
Sun Visor & Vanity Mirror
Adjustable sun visors are provided for the driver and front passenger to block sun glare. Each visor is equipped with an illuminated vanity mirror.
Sun Visor Adjustment
Block the sunlight ahead:
Rotate the sun visor downwards   to a desired angle to block the sunlight ahead.
Block side sunlight:
The sun visor can also rotate to the side to block the sunlight from the side windows.
Rotate the sun visor downwards   to the desired angle.
Detach from the mounting clip and swing outward  .
Illuminated Vanity Mirror
The driver and passenger sun visors are equipped with illuminated vanity mirrors. The mirror light switches on automatically when the mirror cover is lifted   and switches off automatically when the mirror cover is closed.
WARNING
Driving with the sun visor in the down position and the vanity mirror light ON can reduce vision of the road, particularly at night.
Sun visors should always be folded away if they are not being used.
When using the sun visor, do not lean too far forward in front of the airbag. The front airbag could cause serious injury if triggered.

## Exterior Lighting

Exterior Lighting - Front
Overview
Front Signature Light
Front Combination Lights
Turn Signal Light in Side Mirror Assembly
Front Combination Lights
Daytime Running Light, Front Position Light, Turn Signal Light
High and Low Beams
Exterior Lighting Controls
The vehicle exterior lighting can be controlled via the Infotainment screen and the left multifunction switch stalk located in front of the steering wheel.
Lighting control via Infotainment screen:
Tap Lighting Control   on the bottom bar.
Select the desired lighting function to enable.
Auto headlights On/Off
Low Beam On/Off
Parking Lights On/Off
All Lights On/Off
The headlights turn on automatically when the exterior light control is set to AUTO   and the ambient light level is low.
NOTE
Headlights may turn ON momentarily if the vehicle passes through a darkened area e.g. beneath a freeway overpass.
Exterior Lighting Control by the multi switch (Left Hand stalk):
Up – Right turn signal
Down – Left turn signal
Push:
AHB OFF setting: Switch on high beam.
AHB ON setting: Re-enable AHB or Switch over between auto and manual high beam mode.
Pull – High beam flash/ quickly disable AHB
High Beam
High beam headlights can be operated manually or by using the Auto High Beam (AHB) function.
For more information about Automatic High Beam, see >   Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) > Other > AHB - Automatic High Beam  .
To manually activate / deactivate high beam:
To manually activate the high beam headlights, push the left multi switch stalk forward. The indicator light   will appear on the screen and the high beams will be switched ON. To return to low beam, pull the multi stalk switch towards you. To flash the high beam headlights, pull the stalk towards you momentarily.
WARNING
Do not use high beam when oncoming traffic is present. Doing so may distract oncoming drivers leading to an accident.
When using the AHB feature, the vehicle may not detect oncoming vehicles in all conditions. Always check for oncoming vehicles and switch to low beam when required.
Automatic headlights are only intended to assist the driver. Full control of vehicle headlights always remains the responsibility of the driver.
NOTE
Do not cover the front windshield camera.
Do not clean the front windshield camera sensor with window cleaner or any hazardous solutions as it may leave a film which could affect sensor operation.
Do not apply any coating on the front windshield as this may impact AHB headlight performance.
A light sensor is located on top of the windshield. Ensure that the sensor is not covered or obstructed as this may result in headlights operating when not required.
Use manual operation to turn ON the headlights if required when driving at night in rain, fog, tunnels and when using parking facilities.
Turn Signals
The vehicle Turn Signals are controlled using the multi switch stalk located on the left-side of the steering wheel.
To operate the Turn Signals:
To flash signal 3 times: Push the multi switch stalk up   or down  lightly, the multi switch stalk will automatically return to its original position
To flash continuously: Push the multi switch stalk up   or down   fully.
The turn signals   and   on the entertainment screen will flash according to the frequency of external turn signals flashing.
To cancel the Turn Signals:
The turn signal will be canceled when:
When the lever is pushed to its maximum position, if the steering wheel rotates back to its original position by a certain angle, the lever will automatically return to the middle position.
When the turn signal is in a continuous flashing state, manually control the lever to return to the middle position.
The 3-flash sequence has ended, if not on continuously.
WARNING
Improper use of lighting can increase the risk of accidents.
NOTE
The Daytime Running Lights (DRL) will turn off while the indicator light is flashing.
Hazard Warning Flashers
The Hazard Warning Flashers warn other drivers to take caution. It should be used in the event of an accident, or if pulled over on the side of the road, or when the vehicle is stopped on the motorway.
To activate/deactivate the Hazard Warning Flashers:
The hazard warning switch is located on the middle area of the front roof.
Press the hazard warning switch, and the hazard warning flashers will start flashing. Press the switch again to turn off the hazard warning flashers.
The signal light     on the infotainment screen flashes when the hazard warning flashers are turned on.
NOTE
The hazard warning flashers can operate even if the vehicle is OFF.
Hazard warning flashers are automatically activated in the event of an emergency braking situation or airbag deployment.
Exterior Lighting - Rear
Overview
Tail Lights
Rear Signature Light
Center High Mount Stop Light (CHMSL)
Rear Reflectors
Reverse Light
Licence Plate Lights
Tail Lights
Rear Position/Signature Light
Turn Signal Light
Brake/Stop Light
Stop/Brake Lights
The Stop/Brake Lights turn ON when regenerative braking system is engaged and when the brake pedal is depressed to alert other road users that the vehicle is slowing down.
There are several Brake Lights on the vehicle including:
Center High Mounted Stop Light (CHMSL)
Brake/Stop Light
Center High Mounted Stop Light (CHMSL)
The Center High Mount Stop Light (CHMSL), located at the top of the liftgate, turns on with the brake light.
Turn Indicator Lights
Turn Lights are used to signal that the driver will change lanes or make a turn. They turn on when the driver initiates a turn using the left indicator stalk.
Reverse Lights
The Reverse Lights turn ON when the Ignition is ON and Reverse (R) is selected.
License Plate Lights
License plate lights make the license plate visible in dark conditions. When either the headlights or parking lights are turned on, the license plate lights will light up.
Rear Reflectors
The rear reflection area is used to reflect light and helps improve the visibility of vehicles at night.
CAUTION
Do not use a dry cloth or sponges to clean headlights or taillights, as they could scratch or damage the lens surface.
NOTE
In cool or damp weather, the inside of the headlights, turn signals, and Taillights may develop condensation. This will clear shortly after switching the lights ON and will not impact the service life of the lights.
Daytime Running Lights
Daytime running lights (DRL) are used to improve the visibility of vehicles on the road during the day.
WARNING
During low visibility conditions, the Daytime Running Lights system may not be able to provide adequate lighting. When needed, turn ON the headlights manually (if Auto Headlights are turned OFF) during conditions of low visibility. Failure to do so may result in a crash due to poor visibility.
The DRLs will turn OFF when:
The front position light is ON.
The front signature light is ON.
The turn signal indicators are active.
The vehicle is turned OFF.
Signature Lights
Signature Lights   are used to provide a lighting feature of the vehicle and are not intended to illuminate the road ahead.
Signature light operation:
Turn ON when the lighting mode is set to Position Lights.
Turn ON when the Headlights are ON.
Follow Me Home Lighting
When the Follow Me Home feature is enabled, the exterior lights will stay illuminated for a period of time after exiting the vehicle, before turning off.
To Activate / Deactivate Follow me home:
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.﻿
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap Settings   > Light Settings   > Exterior.
Choose the time delay for lights to remain ON -  Off/30s/60s/90s/120s .
To activate the Follow Me Home feature, select a duration other than  Off  and briefly flash the high beam using the left multi switch stalk before exiting the vehicle.
NOTE
Follow Me Home is triggered only when the required conditions are met. Selecting a duration does not automatically activate the lights after every drive.
The default duration is 30s.
Welcome Lights
The vehicle welcome light feature automatically turns on exterior lighting when the driver approaches or unlocks the vehicle.
To Activate / Deactivate Welcome Lights:
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap Settings   > Light Settings   > Exterior.
Use the toggle button to turn the Welcome Light on or off, or to select the desired Welcome Light mode (if available).

## Interior Lighting

Front Dome Lamp
The front dome lamps are located in the middle area of the front roof and can provide illumination to passengers in their cabin areas.
To activate/deactivate the front dome lamps:
The front dome lamps can operate manually in the following methods:
Press the switch on the driver side or passenger side to turn the corresponding front dome lamp ON. Press the switch again to turn the lamp OFF.
Tap Lighting Control   > Dome Light   on the Infotainment screen to set the front dome lamps to Off / On / Auto.
Auto mode:
Tap the Auto icon   to set the front dome lamps to Auto, and they will then illuminate automatically in the following situations:
When the vehicle is unlocked.
When any door is opened.
WARNING
Do not use the interior lights while driving in the dark. The interior lights may affect the driver’s view and may cause an accident.
NOTE
In the event of a collision, the interior lights may turn on automatically.
If a lamp is turned on manually, the automatic function is disabled.
Rear Inside Lamp 2nd Row
Rear inside Lamps located on the headliner trim.
To activate/deactivate the rear inside lamps:
Press the rear inside lamp   itself to turn it ON/OF.
Or, rear inside lamps are also controlled via the Infotainment screen, same as the front dome lamps. See >   Front Dome Lamp  .﻿
WARNING
Do not use the interior lights while driving in the dark. The interior lights may affect the driver’s view and may cause an accident.
Luggage Compartment Light
The luggage compartment light is located in the rear luggage compartment area and provides a source of light while loading and unloading items in the cargo area.
To activate/deactivate the luggage compartment light:
The light is automatically switched ON when the liftgate is opened and is turned OFF after 5 minutes, or when the liftgate is closed.
CAUTION
To avoid breaking the luggage compartment light, care must be taken when loading and unloading items in the rear.

## Wipers and Washers

Front Wipers
The Front Wipers are used to remove water, rain, snow, dirt, and debris from the vehicle’s front windshield. The wipers operate across the front windshield to give the driver better visibility.
Wiper Controls
The front wiper control stalk is located behind the steering wheel on the left hand side.
Mist: Rotate the knob   upward and hold briefly to wipe once.
Spray water: Rotate the knob   upward and hold to spray washer fluid and wipe. Release the knob to stop spraying and wiping, and the wiper will return to its initial position.
OFF: Rotate the knob   to the “ OFF ” position to turn OFF the front wiper.
Auto: Rotate the knob   to the “AUTO” position to enable automatic wiping.
LO: Rotate the knob   to the “ LO ” position for continuous low-speed wiping.
HI: Rotate the knob   to the “ HI ” position for continuous high-speed wiping.﻿
CAUTION
Before using the wipers, please clear the ice and snow on the windshield and confirm that the wiper blades are not frozen in a fixed position.
If there are wrinkles or stains on the windshield, it is necessary to clean the windshield and wiper blades. If the problem still persists, replace the wiper blades.
It is strictly prohibited to operate the wiper blades when the windshield is dry.
To prevent possible damage to the washer pump, do not operate the windshield washer when the fluid reservoir is empty.
Do not attempt to move the wipers manually, it may damage the wiper arms and other components.
Always use VinFast-approved washer fluid in the washer reservoir. Failure to follow this instruction may severely impact visibility when washer fluid is sprayed on the windshield, and might damage the windshield.
NOTE
The Wiper/Washer activation function will work only when the vehicle is in ON condition.
Check the washer fluid level regularly.
Check it often when the weather is bad.
Fill the washer fluid reservoir till full.
To prevent icing on the windshield during the colder months, turn on the defroster to heat the windshield before and during washer use.
Rear Wipers
The Rear Wiper is used to remove rain, snow, dirt, and debris from the vehicle’s rear windshield for better visibility for the driver.
Rear Wiper Controls
The rear wiper control stalk is located behind the steering wheel on the left hand side.
ON/OFF: Short press the rear left button   to toggle rear wiper continuous wiping ON/OFF.
Mist: Rotate the knob   downward and hold briefly to wipe once.
Rear Windshield Wash: Rotate the knob   downward and hold to spray washer fluid and wipe. Release the knob to stop spraying and wiping, and the wiper will return to its initial position.
To turn ON/OFF Auto Rear Wiper:
The auto rear wiper function will automatically cycle the rear wiper when the front wipers are activated and Reverse (R) gear is selected.
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap Settings   > Vehicle Settings   > Wipers.
Use the toggle button to turn the feature On/Off.
CAUTION
Before using the Rear Wiper, clear any ice or snow from the Rear Window otherwise it may prevent Wiper Blade operating effectively. It may also cause damage to the Wiper Motor.
Do not operate the Windscreen Wipers on a dry screen. The drag on the Wiper mechanism may cause damage.
If the Wiper Blades become stuck or jammed, an electronic cut-out may temporarily stop the Wipers. If this happens, switch OFF the Wipers and the vehicle. Clear any obstructions and free the Wiper Blades, before attempting to switch ON the vehicle.
In freezing or very hot conditions ensure that the Wipers have not stuck to the Windscreen before operating. The drag on the Wiper mechanism may cause damage.
Always use VinFast approved Washer fluid in the Washer reservoir. Failure to follow this instruction may severely impact visibility when Washer fluid is sprayed on the Windshield and may damage the Windshield.
NOTE
The wipers will turn ON only when the vehicle is ON.

## Braking and Stopping

Electric Parking Brake
The Electric Parking Brake (EPB) is an electronically controlled parking brake that is designed to hold or stop the vehicle when parked. Additionally, it can also be used as an emergency brake.
When EPB is active, the   icon is displayed on the screen.
To engage the Electric Parking Brake:
Ensure the vehicle is stationary, press the P gear button on the lever to the right of the steering wheel. The vehicle will shift into Park (P) and the electronic parking brake will be activated.
WARNING
Always ensure that the electronic parking brake is activated and the vehicle is in Park (P) mode before exiting the vehicle.
NOTE
The electronic parking brake is applied to the two rear wheels and operates independently from the main braking system.
Electric parking brake will be automatically engaged when the vehicle is turned OFF, or when Auto Hold is active and the vehicle remains stationary for more than 5 minutes.
When the automatic shift-to-P function is enabled, the electronic parking brake will also be automatically activated when the driver’s door is opened.
To release the Electric Parking Brake:
Press the brake pedal and shift to Neutral (N), the electronic parking brake will be released.
Press the brake pedal and shift to D (Drive); the electronic parking brake will be released automatically. If shifting to R (Reverse), gently press the accelerator pedal to allow the system to automatically release the electronic parking brake.
CAUTION
When the vehicle is out of battery, the EPB cannot be released.
To use the Electric Parking Brake in an Emergency:
If it is not possible to park through the brake pedal, the electronic parking brake can be used for emergency braking.
Press and hold the P gear button on the lever to achieve emergency braking function.
The Electric Parking Brake will slow down the vehicle until switch is released.
CAUTION
Do not use the Electric Parking Brake to stop the vehicle, except in case of an emergency. The brake system may get damaged if the Electric Parking Brake is used repeatedly to slow down or stop the vehicle.
Auto-hold
Auto Hold ( (AVH) keeps the vehicle stationary without needing to continuously press the brake pedal, such as when stopped at a red light or in traffic jams. When Auto Hold is activated, after you press the brake pedal to bring the vehicle to a complete stop, the system will automatically hold the brakes even if you release the brake pedal.﻿ To continue moving, simply press the accelerator, and the system will automatically release the brakes.
When the vehicle is in the Auto Hold active state, to ensure safety and achieve optimal system performance, the system will automatically engage the electronic parking brake (EPB) in certain situations, such as:
Turning off the Auto Hold function via the infotainment screen without pressing the brake pedal.
When the driver’s door is opened.
Auto Hold active more than 5 minutes.
When the vehicle is stopped on a slope greater than 25%.
The system detects that the vehicle is rolling.
The driver shifts to Park (P) gear.
How to Activate/Deactivate Auto Hold:
Tap  Drive Mode    on the Driver View Area to access the Driving Preferences interface.
Scroll down to find  Auto Hold .
Use the toggle button to turn the feature On/Off.
Recognize the status on the infotainment screen:
CONDITION
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
Integrated IPC
Seperate IPC
AVH OFF
[OFF]: AUTO HOLD off.
AVH Ready
[White]: when Auto Hold feature is enabled via infotainment screen and Auto Hold is in READY state.
AVH Active
[Green]: The green icon indicates that the Auto Hold feature is enabled and in the active state. At this point, the driver can release the brake pedal.
Auto Hold transitions to the Active state when the vehicle is stopped, the brake pedal is firmly pressed, and the feature is activated via the screen.
AVH Failure
[Yellow]: When the Auto Hold feature malfunctions.
WARNING
Check the warning lights on the control panel. If any symbols related to brakes or Auto Hold appear, stop using the feature and inspect the vehicle.
Perform regular maintenance and ensure the sensors and braking system are checked frequently.
Always use the handbrake or electronic parking brake (EPB) and turn off the engine when leaving the vehicle.
Ensure that the Auto Hold indicator light turns green before you releasing the brake pedal.
NOTE
Auto Hold only operates in Drive (D), Reverse (R), and Neutral (N) gears (in cases where shifting from Drive or Reverse to Neutral). It does not work in the Park mode.
If the user enables both Creep Mode and Auto Hold simultaneously, Creep Mode will not activate while Auto Hold is in the active state. The user can disable Auto Hold if necessary.
When ACC function is active or resumes from Standby, the Auto Hold feature transits from Active to Fade out to avoid conflicts.
When the user stops the vehicle on a slope, presses the brake to keep the vehicle stationary, and activates the Auto Hold feature, the indicator will turn green immediately.
Anti-lock Braking System (ABS)
The Anti-Lock Braking System (ABS) prevents the wheels from locking and helps maintaining steering during hard braking events. The speed of each wheel is monitored and braking pressure on each wheel is adjusted so that the wheels continue to rotate and don’t lock and slide.
When ABS is working, you will feel brake pedal vibration and may hear noise, which is a normal phenomenon when ABS is working.
WARNING
The use of tires with insufficient adhesion (such as excessively worn tires on snow covered roads) may result in ABS not working effectively.
The ABS warning light   and Brake warning light   briefly illuminate when the vehicle is started. If the lights do not illuminate, contact VinFast Service Center to have the vehicle inspected and repaired.
If the ABS warning light is on and it remains on, you may have a problem with the ABS system. Do not drive your vehicle, contact VinFast Service Center to have the vehicle inspected.
ABS helps maintain steering control during hard braking, but it cannot overcome the effects of excessive speed, unsafe following distances, or reckless driving.
CAUTION
Maintaining strong and stable pressure on the brake pedal is crucial in emergency braking situations. Moving the foot off the brake pedal will increase the braking distance.
ABS performance is impacted by snow, ice, roads covered with dirt or gravel. Drive carefully, always keep enough room ahead to stop the vehicle.
Electronic Brake Distribution (EBD)
Electronic Brake Distribution (EBD) optimizes the braking performance of the vehicle under different operating conditions. It electronically adjusts the brake bias in between the wheels (front and rear) based on road conditions, vehicle load, speed, traction, etc.
WARNING
EBD system does not compensate or prevent accidents caused by dangerous driving or high speed maneuverer.
Brake Assist (BA)
The Brake Assist (BA) system recognizes when the driver has applied the brake suddenly and applies additional brake pressure to assist the driver in minimizing vehicle stopping distance. BA system works to assist the vehicles braking system to engage ABS as fast as possible and will disengage upon release of the brake pedal.
WARNING
Do not completely rely on ﻿Brake Assist system﻿ as it does not compensate or prevent accidents caused by dangerous driving or high speed turning maneuvers.
Electronic Stability Control (ESC)
The Electronic Stability Control System (ESC) helps to stabilize the vehicle during cornering and braking events if traction between the road surface and tires is reduced. ESC monitors individual wheel speed and driver steering angle and applies brake pressure to individual wheels to prevent vehicle understeer and oversteer, and aids the driver to keep the vehicle on it’s intended path.
The ESC light   will temporarily flash on the screen when the ESC system is actively applying brakes. In case of a malfunction, the ESC light will remain on in which case contact a VinFast Service Center to have the vehicle inspected.
To enable/disable ESC﻿:
Tap  Drive Mode    on the Driver View Area to access the Driving Preferences screen.
Scroll down to find  Electronic Stability Control (ESC) .
Change ESC setting to OFF/ON using toggle button.
WARNING
Electronic Stability Control does not compensate or prevent collisions caused by dangerous driving or turning sharply at high speeds.
CAUTION
Maintain strong and steady pressure on the brake pedal during an emergency braking situation. Do not remove your foot from the brake pedal or pump the brake pedal, as doing so can increase the braking distance.
NOTE
ESC by default will be ON every time you turn the vehicle ON.
Turning off ESC does not disable ABS or the braking system of the vehicle.
Traction Control System will also be disabled when ESC is turned OFF.
Traction Control System (TCS)
The Traction Control System (TCS) is an active safety feature which helps to limit the wheel slip and assist the driver in maintaining the control of the vehicle, especially in slippery road conditions. TCS monitors the speed of each individual wheel, and if slip is detected, it applies brake pressure to that slipping wheel in order to maximize traction. It is recommended that TCS is ON at all times for maximum safety.
The TCS light   will temporarily flash on the screen when the TCS system is actively applying brakes. In case of a malfunction is detected the TCS light   will remain ON. In this case, contact a VinFast Service Center to have your vehicle inspected.
Traction Control System is ON by default.
To enable/disable TCS﻿:
Tap  Drive Mode    on the Driver View Area to access the Driving Preferences screen.
Scroll down to find  Traction Control System (TCS) .
Change TCS setting to OFF/ON using toggle button.
WARNING
Traction Control System does not compensate or prevent collisions caused by dangerous driving or turning sharply at high speeds.
NOTE
If the vehicle is stuck while driving on snow, mud, or sand covered surfaces, or if you are using snow chains, turning TCS OFF may improve forward movement. However, it is recommended to turn ON the TCS as soon as the vehicle is mobile again.
Traction Control System will also be disabled when ESC is turned OFF.
Hill-start Assist Control (HSA)
Hill-start Assist Control (HSA) temporarily prevents the vehicle from unintended roll back when positioned on a hill or incline.﻿ The system remains activated for a period of ﻿﻿approximately 2-seconds after the driver releases the brake pedal. HSA works by temporarily holding brake pressure, after the brake pedal is released by the driver.
WARNING
Do not rely on HSA completely. It does not replace human input and intuition in any way or form. Always be aware of the surroundings and drive safely.
A heavily loaded vehicle may cause the vehicle to roll backwards slightly.
CAUTION
HSA remains active only for a period of approximately 2-seconds after releasing the brake pedal. Always be careful of the surroundings and be ready to press the brake pedal.
Roll Over Mitigation (ROM)
Roll Over Mitigation is a safety feature which anticipates the potential for wheel lift by monitoring the driver’s steering wheel angle, vehicle speed and acceleration. Roll Over Mitigation analyses the rate of change of steering wheel angle and the vehicle speed to determine the possibility of a vehicle roll. The system reduces the possibility by applying appropriate brake pressure to individual wheels.
Roll Over Mitigation cannot prevent wheel lift caused by factors such as:
Road conditions
Rough terrain
Collision with other vehicles or objects
WARNING
Factors, such as road conditions, driving conditions, and vehicle loading may influence the chances of wheel lift or rollover.
Roll Over Mitigation cannot prevent wheel lift or rollover in every situation.
Roll Over Mitigation is a safety feature .  It should not be exploited by driving the vehicle recklessly and causing danger to driver, passengers, and others.
NOTE
The curtain airbag remains or will be inflated in the event of a side impact or a rollover accident.
When inflated, the curtain airbag is designed to cover the side windows, reducing the possibility of a passenger being ejected from the vehicle in the event of an accident.
Hill Descent Control (HDC)
The Hill Descent Control (HDC) system automatically applies the brakes when the vehicle is descending a steep slope to help the driver maintain a steady and safe speed.
To enable/disable HDC﻿:
Tap  Drive Mode    on the Driver View Area to access the Driving Preferences screen.
Scroll down to find  Hill Descent Control .
Change HDC setting to OFF/ON using toggle button.
WARNING
HDC is an assistance function only. The driver remains responsible for the safe operation of the vehicle and must always pay attention to surrounding traffic conditions.
If the slope is too steep, HDC may not maintain a steady speed. Press the brake pedal to control the vehicle speed if necessary.
CAUTION
HDC can be activated when the vehicle speed is between 8 km/h and 35 km/h. HDC will automatically deactivate when the vehicle speed exceeds 60 km/h.
If the brake system temperature becomes too high, HDC may be unavailable or automatically deactivated.
Emergency Signal System (ESS)
The Emergency Signal System (ESS) temporarily activates the hazard lights when the vehicle detects an emergency braking situation. Rapid flashing of the hazard lights helps warn nearby vehicles of a rapidly slowing vehicle and alerts them to maintain a safe distance to avoid collision.
The hazard lights stops flashing once the emergency braking event ends. If the hazard lights continue to flash, contact the nearest VinFast Service Center.
For information on Hazard Warning Flashers, see >   Exterior Lighting > Hazard Warning Flashers  .
Regenerative Braking
The vehicle is equipped with a Regenerative Braking System. The system converts kinetic energy usually released as heat during a braking event into electrical energy. The recovered energy can then be used to replenish the HV battery, leading to increased vehicle range.
The system gets activated as soon as the accelerator pedal is released. It will gradually slow the vehicle down and start recharging the HV battery.
The energy recovery can be monitored on the Power and Regen Gauge, which is displayed in the status bar above the Drive Mode icon on the infotainment screen.
NOTE
The level of regenerative braking may be reduced or unavailable when the battery is fully charged or when the battery temperature is too low or too high.
To turn ON/OFF Power & Regen Display:
The Power & Regen Display shows power consumption and energy regeneration information while driving. It is only available while the vehicle is in motion.
Tap  Drive Mode    on the Driver View Area to access the Driving Preferences interface.
Scroll down to find  Power & Regen Display .
Use the toggle button to turn the feature On/Off.
Adjust amount of Regenerative Braking
The vehicle provides levels of regenerative braking ( Off, Low, Mid and High) . The levels can be switched using the toggle button under Regenerative Braking.
Tap  Drive Mode    on the Driver View Area to access the Driving Preferences interface.
Find  Regenerative Braking .
Tap to turn off the regenerative braking or switch regenerative braking level.
WARNING
Do not consider regenerative braking as the primary braking of the vehicle; it is only a supplementary feature.

## Economy & Environment

Economical Driving
Economical driving can help to improve energy efficiency, road safety, and prevent abnormal wear of vehicle.
Refer to the following recommendations for economical driving:
Avoid harsh braking: The Regenerative Braking System is a key enabler of economic driving. The system converts some of the vehicle’s kinetic energy into electrical energy which is then used to recharge the vehicle’s batteries and extend the driving range of the vehicle. Taking advantage of Regenerative Braking by reducing friction on the brakes will significantly improve the driver’s ability to drive economically and to avoid harsh acceleration and braking. See >   Braking and Stopping > Regenerative Braking  .
Maintain an efficient speed: High speed driving increases energy consumption, discharging the battery faster, and therefore reducing the vehicle’s driving range.
Reconsider use of heating and air conditioning: The vehicle’s Heating, Lighting, Climate Control, Audio, and Infotainment systems consume energy from the vehicle’s battery system and will therefore reduce the vehicle’s driving range. Whenever it is safe and convenient to do so reduce the usage of these systems to drive economically.
Tire pressure: Always keep the tire inflation pressure at the recommended level to reduce unnecessary rolling resistance that decreases efficiency of the battery.
Battery management: To improve the health and life of the battery keep the vehicle in a well-maintained condition. Better battery health will improve the driving range. Minimize the use of DC Fast Chargers, particularly Super-Fast Chargers, to improve the Battery life. Do not allow the battery charge to drop to a very low level.
Remove unnecessary weight: Energy consumption can be reduced by removing excessive or unnecessary weight, when not in use and it is convenient to do so, improve vehicle driving range by removing items such as unused child seats, disposable, personal items, etc.
Maintain distance: Maintain an adequate distance from other vehicles to avoid emergency braking.
Wheel alignment: Have the wheel alignment checked as recommended in the maintenance schedule. Incorrect wheel alignment can lead to increased tire wear and power consumption.
Windows: It is always recommended to drive with all the windows closed if possible.
Driving Statistics (if available)
Driving Statistics displays the history of the battery consumption, distance, and power use of the vehicle over a chosen period. This data is also available to view via the VinFast App.
NOTE
This menu is only shown when fitted (for the markets that has internet connection).
To open driving statistics:
Tap  Profile Name  on the status bar.
Tap  My Profile > Profile Settings > Driving Statistics   .
Driving Statistics Graph    will be displayed on the screen.
Time Ranges
The driver can see the statistics by selecting time ranges or by customizing the time range.
To select time ranges:
Tap  Expand    icon.
Select the Time Duration or customize the Date Range as required.
Tap  Apply  to apply the Time Duration for Custom range.
Statistics will be shown for the selected Time Duration.
To select the view:
The driver can select from the following different views for statistics:
Distance
Average Consumption
Power
To change the view, select the desired view from toggle button.
To see details:
Tap a column to view detailed values in a tooltip.
Tap the horizontal line to view its value in a tooltip.
To view next/back page:
Viewing next and back page depends on time range selected.
Swipe right to left to go back to previous page.
Swipe left to right to view the next page.
Trip History (if available)
For Primary and Secondary drivers, Trip History displays a list of recent vehicle journeys. Tap on any recent trip in the list to view the following information:
Start Location
Destination
Stopping Locations
Departure Time
Arrival Time
Trip Distance
Duration
NOTE
This menu is only shown when fitted (for the markets that has internet connection).
To view Trip History:
Tap  Profile Name  on the status bar.
Tap  My Profile > Profile Settings > Trip History   .
Tap  Trip Card  to open trip details.﻿
To delete a Trip History:
Tap Delete   icon on the top right corner of the trip detail page.

## Cold Weather

Cold Weather
Overview
Winter months and lower temperatures may cause some changes in the operation of the vehicle. It is important to be aware of the effects of cold weather so that you can prepare accordingly. When snow and ice accumulate on the vehicle, the battery, tires, wiper fluid, and wipers can freeze. To achieve maximum range and performance, it is helpful to warm the cabin and battery before driving.
When battery is in cold condition, a snowflake icon appears beside battery capacity bar. Battery capacity bar also changes to amber color.
Impact of cold weather
Battery at risk:
Temperatures lower than -30°C ( -22 °F ) can cause issues to the battery in terms of performance and range. It is recommended to select ECO drive mode to help extend the range when driving in cold weather.
Frozen Door Handles, Windows, Mirrors:
In winter conditions, snow or ice may buildup within the door handles, windows and vehicle mirrors. It prevents the vehicle door, window and mirror from operating properly.
Doors:
Apply some extra force while pulling on the door handles to break it free of ice.
Open and close the door handle a few more times to release any remaining ice buildup.
Ensure the door handle is fully retracted before entering the vehicle, and ensure that the door is fully closed before you drive off.
Windows:
See >   Climate Control System > Front Windscreen Defrost and Defog   and see >   Climate Control System > Rear Demist  .
Alternatively, the VinFast App can be used to defrost the windows before entering the vehicle.
Mirrors:
The ice can hinder the folding or unfolding of exterior side mirrors. Therefore, it is recommended to turn OFF Mirror Auto Fold so that they do not fold when the vehicle is locked. See >   Mirrors > Side Mirrors  .
Tire inflation issues:
Fluctuating temperatures have impacts on the level of inflation in tires, which makes it extremely important to check the tire pressures frequently in cold conditions. Use winter tires to increase traction in snowy or icy conditions. See >   Wheels and Tires > Tire Pressure  .
Frozen windshield wipers:
Cold temperatures can also cause your windshield wipers to freeze, which can be dangerous. If snow or ice is expected when parked, consider tilting the windshield wipers up.
Lighting operation:
Remove any snow, frost or ice that may cover the indicators, head lights and brake lights, before driving to ensure safe vehicle operation.
While Driving
Cold conditions increase energy consumption due to more power which is needed for driving, cabin heating, and battery charging. Energy consumption can be reduced by following these tips:
Maintain slow and steady speed while driving and avoid rapid braking and accelerations.
Regenerative braking
Depending on the battery temperature, regenerative braking may be limited. The battery warms up as you drive and regenerative power increases. See >   Braking and Stopping > Regenerative Braking  .
Cooling system
Before use cooling system be ensure the bumper cleaned snow and ice, it can be appeared fault in the winter time because the snow and ice interferes good working of moveable radiator grill.
Brake Performance in Cold Weather Conditions:
When the vehicle is driven or parked in snowy, icy, or extremely cold conditions, ice or frost may form on brake components. Under these conditions, braking effectiveness may be temporarily reduced during the initial brake applications.
Before driving, inspect the brake system for any visible ice or snow accumulation, ensure the brake pedal moves smoothly, and verify brake effectiveness in a safe area. If braking performance is reduced, apply the brakes gently several times. Brake performance will gradually return to normal as the brake friction surfaces warm up and any ice, frost, or moisture is removed.
Drive carefully and maintain a greater distance from the vehicle ahead when operating the vehicle under severe winter conditions.
During extended driving periods with little or no brake application, periodically apply the brakes lightly to confirm proper brake operation and help keep the brake friction surfaces dry and free from ice accumulation.
WARNING
Always ensure that the electronic parking brake is activated and the vehicle is in Park (P) mode before exiting the vehicle.
Do not use the cruise control on slippery roads such as snowy or icy roads. This may cause loss of vehicle control.
Do not use a combination of different tires in extreme weather conditions.

## Flood Precautions

Flood Precautions
CAUTION
It is not recommended to drive in flooded roads or areas.
Water may enter critical vehicle systems, especially the electrical and high-voltage (HV) systems, which may result in the following hazards:
Electric shock
Fire or overheating
Damage to the battery, electric motor, and control modules
Loss of vehicle operability
VinFast does not recommend driving the vehicle through flooded areas. Only proceed through flooded roads when no safer alternative is available.
Before Driving Through Flooded Areas
Check and assess the water depth before proceeding.
Do not drive if the water level exceeds the vehicle ground clearance
Observe road surface conditions and water flow.
When Driving Through Flooded Areas
Operating Guidelines:
Drive at a low speed (below 10 km/h).
Maintain a steady speed and avoid sudden acceleration or deceleration.
Drive straight and avoid abrupt steering inputs.
Maintain a safe distance from other vehicles.
Turn off the air conditioning system to reduce the risk of water being drawn into the vehicle through the blower system and to minimize electrical load.
Use an appropriate drive mode. Switch to ECO or NORMAL mode (if equipped) to improve accelerator control and reduce wheel slip.
Actions to Avoid
Do not stop the vehicle in flooded areas.
Do not accelerate suddenly or create large waves in front of the vehicle.
Avoid reversing in water unless necessary to exit the flooded area safely.
Do not open the vehicle doors while in flooded conditions.
Large water waves may allow water to enter electrical components and cause vehicle damage.
WARNING
After Driving Through Flooded Areas
-Apply the brakes several times to help dry the braking system.
-Check brake responsiveness while driving at low speed.
-Monitor the vehicle for any warning messages or indicators.
Precautions for Continued Operation
-Water, mud, or silt may reduce braking performance.
-Braking distance may increase.
-Maintain a safe following distance and avoid sudden braking.
Risk of Flood-Related Damage
Driving through deep water may cause severe damage to:
-High-voltage (HV) battery
-Electric motor
-Drivetrain system
-Steering system
-Electrical system and control modules
Water, mud, leaves, or debris accumulated after driving through flooded areas may affect:
-Corrosion
-Electrical short circuits
-The A/C condenser, and the cooling performance of the system
-Intermittent or delayed system malfunctions
Flood Damage Is Not Covered Under Warranty
Damage affecting the high-voltage (HV) system.
If the vehicle is submerged in water above its ground clearance.
-Water may enter the high-voltage system.
-This may result in loss of insulation and electrical leakage.
-Potential hazards include electric shock, fire, or severe vehicle damage.
Damage related to the high-voltage system may not occur immediately and can appear after a period of time.
Situations Requiring Immediate Action
Stop the vehicle and contact VinFast immediately if any of the following conditions occur:
The vehicle cannot enter READY mode.
Warning messages related to the electrical system or battery are displayed.
The vehicle operates abnormally or experiences power loss.
A burning smell, smoke, or unusual noises are detected.
Required Actions
Stop the vehicle in a safe location.
Power off the vehicle.
Do not continue operating the vehicle.
Do not charge the vehicle under any circumstances.
Exit the vehicle if there are signs of unsafe conditions.
Contact VinFast support for assistance.
Handling a Flood-Damaged Vehicle
If the vehicle has been submerged or exposed to flooding:
Do Not
Restart the vehicle.
Charge the vehicle.
Attempt to inspect, disassemble, or repair any components.
Mandatory Requirements
Contact VinFast for assistance.
Transport the vehicle to the nearest authorized dealer or service center.
Repairs must only be performed by authorized VinFast service facilities.
Repairs performed by unauthorized facilities may not ensure vehicle safety and may affect warranty coverage.
Recommendations
Avoid driving through flooded areas whenever possible.
Do not take risks if the water depth cannot be determined.
Choose a safer alternative route whenever available.

# Displays, Connections and Climate


## Infotainment Screen

Infotainment Screen Overview
You can control or adjust vehicle features and functions through the infotainment screen. Depending on the vehicle variant, the infotainment screen has also replaced the traditional combination instrument panel to display important information such as vehicle speed, driving status, warnings, indications, and more.
Images and features in this chapter are for illustration purposes only and may vary depending on vehicle variant and selected software.
Infotainment Screen Layout
Driver view area
Displays vehicle status and driving related information, including vehicle speed, warning icons, and battery status. Provides shortcuts for various vehicle functions. The displayed content and available features may vary depending on the vehicle version.
Status bar
Displays important information such as the VinFast logo, phone connection status, profile avatar and status icons.
Home page/App view
Opened app and widgets.
Bottom bar
Provides access to the App Library and to various functions, such as lighting controls, climate controls, and returning to the home screen.
App Library
The App Library displays all the Apps available on the infotainment system.
To enter App Library:
Tap App Library   on the Infotainment screen.
All available Apps will be displayed.
Infotainment Screen Use
Use the infotainment screen to control the vehicle and infotainment settings.
It is recommended that users familiarize themselves with all Infotainment screen related content presented in the Owner’s Manual. This will enable the driver to focus their attention on driving, while experiencing the best performance and features offered by the system.
WARNING Do not use the Infotainment screen frequently and avoid reading any texts while driving. Extended focus on the Infotainment screen may lead to an accident, and can cause serious injuries or death.
CAUTION
Use high quality microfiber cloth to clean the Infotainment screen display. Do not use any abrasive material or cleaning solutions on the infotainment screen display as it can cause permanent damage.
Infotainment screen display operation
Selecting a function:
Tap any function to select it.
Example:  Tap on any app, to open.
Zooming In/Out
To display images or web pages, place your fingers and thumbs on the entertainment screen and unfold them.
To zoom out, put your finger and thumb on the Infotainment screen and pinch them together.
Browsing Lists and Panning
Browsing Lists:
To scroll down the browsing lists, drag from bottom to top.
To scroll up the browsing lists, drag from top to bottom.
Panning:
This allows your to change the view to another location by dragging on the screen, without changing its magnification.
View another location on a map or a zoomed in image without changing its magnification by using the panning function.
Notifications & Quick control
The notification is displayed as a pop-up window on the Infotainment screen. Tapping the notification will launch the related application. If not tapped, the notification will automatically disappear either after a period of time or when the issue is resolved.
Notification Types
There are five different types of notifications:
Notification
Description
Volume Indicator
Indicates volume level of all programs, including Media, Voice, Assistance, Parking, and Phone in the vehicle.
(Includes Mute and Minimum variations).
Banner
Provides information of an in-progress event (Options may be provided related to the event).
Prompts
Driving related messages/notifications with recommended actions.
(May also provide instructions directly related to current driving conditions).
Dialog
Messages notify of a task and may contain critical information or seek confirmation or direction from the user.
Warnings and Alerts
Provides information of a vehicle related issue to the user.
(They are shown in Driver View Area and can be reviewed at any time via the vehicle alerts page. Vehicle warnings will be colored depending on importance).
Notification Center
This feature provides a list of all non-critical vehicle messages or status indicators.
Additionally, in the notification center, users can quickly adjust certain functions depending on the vehicle variant, including:
Open the settings app
Turn Wi-Fi On/Off
Turn Wireless Charging (if equipped) On/Off
Turn Reduce Chime On/Off
Turn Global Mute On/Off
Turn the passenger airbag On/Off
Enable Camp Mode (if available)
Enable Pet Mode (if available)
Enable Wash Mode (if available)
Enable Nap Mode (if available)
Adjust screen brightness
To open Notification Center:
Slide down from the top of Infotainment screen.
Notification Center interface will open directly.
Tap on any notification from the list to view the details.
To clear notifications in Notification Center﻿:
To clear all notifications, tap  Clear All .
Swipe left to right/right to left on any notification to remove it from the list.
To close Notification Center:
Scroll up from the bottom of the touchscreen to close the notification center.
OR, tap Handle bar  .
WARNING
Do not read detailed information or perform other tasks on the infotainment screen while driving. It can cause distraction, leading to a vehicle collision, injury, or death.
NOTE
When the notification card has progress bar, it can not be delete until 100%.
User Profiles
User Profiles allows you to manage vehicle profiles on the Infotainment screen.
To create a new Profile:
For detailed information about creating a Primary Profile, Secondary Profile, or Custom Profile.
NOTE
Maximum 11 different profiles can be created, including profiles for Primary driver, Secondary driver, Guest, Valet, and 7 Customer profiles.
Creating new profiles or switching profiles is disabled when the vehicle is not in Park (P).
To delete a profile:
Tap  Profile Name  >  My Profile .
Tap  Three Dot    icon.
Tap  Delete profile .
Tap  Delete profile  to confirm.
NOTE
Driver can create, edit, delete depending on the active profile roles.
Profile Settings
This allows the user to adjust/recalibrate the following settings:
Personal Info
Authentication
Advanced setting
Remote Control
Personalization
To access the Profile Settings:
Tap  Profile Name  >  My Profile .
Personal Info
This page displays the following information about the user profile:
Full name
Email and Phone number
VinFast account
Avatar image
To edit Name, Profile picture:
Tap  Profile settings  >  Personal info .
Tap  Edit    icon.
To login VinFast Account:
Tap  Link Now .
Enter valid VinFast Account Email.
Tap  Link .
NOTE
Before logging into the VinFast account, ensure that Data Privacy has been accepted and an internet connection is available.
To unlink VinFast account:
Tap  Unlink    icon.
Tap  Unlink .
To edit Avatar Image:
Tap  Edit  icon near Avatar image.
Select from available images.
Or, Tap  Image from USB .
Select an image from the available images on the USB.
Edit avatar image with  Rotate/Flip  icons.
Tap  Save .
Authentication
This page allows the user to adjust/recalibrate the following settings:
PIN
Key Fob
To set PIN:
Tap  Profile settings  >  Authentication .
Tap  Set Up .
Enter 6 Digit PIN.
To Edit/delete PIN:
Tap  Profile settings  >  Authentication .
Tap  Edit/Delete .
Enter PIN to confirm.
To Link a Key Fob:
Tap  Profile settings  >  Authentication .
Tap  Link .
Place the key Fob into the center console. See >   Starting the Vehicle - Low Key Fob Battery  .
Tap  Link Key Fob .
To Edit and Remove Key Fob Linking
Tap  Profile settings  >  Authentication .
To activate/deactivate Key Fob Linking, tap  Activate / Deactivate .
To unlink key fob, tap on  Unlink .
Remote Control (if available)
To Link VinFast App:
Tap  Pair now .
To link from VinFast app, scan  QR code .
After confirmation, a notification will pop up on screen.
To Unlink VinFast App:
Tap  Unpair device .
Tap  Unpair  to confirm.
Personalization
This allows the driver to save/set Steering Wheel, Side Mirrors and Driver Seat positions to a profile. These settings will be available upon the next profile login.
To save/delete positions:
Tap  Profile settings  >  Personalization .
To save the current position of Steering Wheel / Side Mirrors / Driver Seat, tap  Save New .
To delete a saved position, tap  Delete .
Valet Mode (if available)
This feature, when activated, disables certain system features and functions preventing unintended use by another person or access to personal information.
Valet mode uses limited features. When active, the following applies:
Store setting Valet mode in NvM.
Delay 5 seconds then stop Wifi connection (if any)
Stop Bluetooth connection (if any)
Disconnect USB connection (if any)
Turn Rear Seat Entertainment off (when fitted)
Wi-Fi and Bluetooth management are not accessible
All entertainment functions are disabled (media, phone, game, maps, 3rd apps...) & stop Media/Radio (if playing)
All vehicle settings are not accessible
User Profiles are not accessible
SmartLinks (Android Auto, Apple CarPlay) are disabled
Voice Assistant is disable
Embedded Maps are not shown
Auto updating User Profile data is disabled
FOTA/SOTA is disabled (except show new Campaign information)
Repair history is not shown
Some ADAS functions shall be deactivated (ADAS functions including: ACC/HWA/FAPA, RP (If has) are disabled)
Display a notification to inform that vehicle has been limit speed
Activation
Valet mode can be activated by any of the following methods:
Changing profile to Valet.
VinFast App (if available).
To activate Valet Mode by changing Profile
On the status bar, tap the Profile Name.
To activate Valet Mode, tap on  Valet .
NOTE
Guest profiles cannot activate Valet Mode.
To activate Valet Mode by VinFast App (if available)
Ensure that the VinFast App is successfully paired with the vehicle.
From the home screen, tap on Remote Control.
On Valet Mode feature, select On/Off.
Valet Mode Settings Overview
Following settings can be adjusted:
Valet Mode PIN  - Edit Valet PIN.
Speed Limit  - Limit the maximum speed of the vehicle.
NOTE
The speed limit can be adjusted in the range of 40-110 km/h.
To access Valet Mode settings:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  Security Settings    >  Valet Mode .
Deactivation
Valet Mode can be deactivated by using Valet Mode PIN.
To deactivate by using Valet Mode PIN:
Tap  Exit Valet Mode  in Profile Dropdown menu.
Or, Tap  Exit Valet Mode  in App View.
Enter a valid PIN.
NOTE
Valet Mode cannot be exited while driving or by restarting the vehicle.
Camp Mode
Camp Mode is a convenient feature that enhances user comfort when using the vehicle for resting or outdoor camping.
Activation
Preconditions for Camp Mode activation:
The vehicle must be in Park (P).
The vehicle must be ON.
Battery state of charge must be greater than 25%.
NOTE
Camp Mode can be activated when the battery level is below 25% if the vehicle is charging.
To activate Camp Mode:
Slide down from the top status bar of Infotainment screen.
From the vehicle function shortcut selection list, click on Camp Mode  .
NOTE
Camp mode can also be activated via the vehicle shutdown notification.
Deactivation:
Camp Mode can be deactivated in any of the following conditions:
Tap  Exit Camp Mode  on the Infotainment screen.
Change gear mode to Drive (D)/Reverse (R)/Neutral (N).
Turn on the Pet/Valet/Wash Mode.
Restarting MHU.
High voltage system has issue.
NOTE
Camp mode cannot be accessed if the battery percentage is below 25%.
Camp Mode will be automatically deactivated if battery percentage is below 15%.
Additionally, users can also enable or disable Camp Mode through the VinFast app (if available).
Wash Mode (if available)
Wash Mode prepares the vehicle for an automatic car wash by closing all the﻿ windows, locking all the doors, locking the charge port door, and disabling the windshield wipers, etc.
Preconditions for Wash Mode activation:
The vehicle must be in Park (P)
Hood must be closed
Charging port must be closed
Liftgate must be closed
All doors must be closed
To activate Wash Mode:
Slide down from the top status bar of Infotainment screen.
From the vehicle function shortcut selection list, click on Wash Mode  .
Make sure all the pre-conditions are met to start Wash Mode.
If any of the pre-conditions are not met the  X  icon will be displayed on the infotainment screen.
Tap  Start Wash Mode .
The vehicle systems will check a list of additional conditions which are required to be compliant for Wash Mode activation.
WARNING
Apply brake carefully after washing. Washing may reduce the vehicle’s braking system effectiveness. Braking system will be restored after a few minutes of driving.
CAUTION
Ensure the vehicle remains in Wash Mode until the vehicle car wash process is complete.
Automatic car wash machines can damage the vehicle. Such damages are not covered under Manufacturer Warranty.
NOTE
Ensure that the car wash is suitable as per the vehicle dimensions.
In Wash Mode, the side mirrors can be folded/unfolded manually using the switch on the screen.
Deactivation:
Tap  Exit Wash Mode  on the Infotainment screen.
NOTE
Wash Mode will be automatically deactivated if the driver engages Drive (D) and vehicle speed is greater than 16km/h (10 mph).
Pet Mode (if available)
This feature allows the pets to be left unattended in the vehicle by creating and maintaining a comfortable environment.
WARNING
Pet Mode is not intended for people.
Always stay in close proximity to the vehicle when using Pet Mode.
Check the countries laws and regulations for any restrictions on leaving pets unattended in vehicles.
Do not completely rely on Pet mode. Never leave pets in the vehicle unattended for long periods of time.
Constantly monitor the vehicle temperature from mobile device.
Always monitor battery charge levels from your mobile device, since a low battery state of charge will deactivate Pet Mode.
Activation
Preconditions for activating Pet Mode:
Pet mode is activated only if the vehicle’s battery state of charge is greater than 25%.
Vehicle Gear position must be in Park (P) and the EPB must be engaged.
The vehicle is powered on or is in charging status.
To activate Pet Mode:
Slide down from the top status bar of Infotainment screen.
From the vehicle function shortcut selection list, click on Pet Mode  .
To edit Pet Mode message:
Tap  Edit message .
Enter the content in the text field.
Tap  Save message .
Deactivation
Pet Mode can be deactivated in any of the following conditions:
Tap  Exit Pet Mode  on the Infotainment screen.
Change gear mode to Drive (D)/Reverse (R)/Neutral (N).
Turn on the Camp/Valet/Wash Mode.
The driver door is opened.
Restarting MHU.
High voltage system has issue.
NOTE
Pet Mode will be automatically deactivated if battery percentage is below 15%.
Additionally, users can also enable or disable Pet Mode through the VinFast app (if available).

## Multimedia & Utilities

Overview and Key Features
The infotainment system can be controlled by using the infotainment screen. It is used for playing various types of media sources.
Radio - Use Radio to listen to FM radio frequency band. See >  Multimedia & Utilities  > Radio  .
Bluetooth Audio - When connected to a valid Bluetooth device you can listen to stored or streamed audio via Bluetooth Media. See >  Multimedia & Utilities  > Bluetooth Audio  .
USB Media - When connected to a valid USB device you can listen to available audio and video via USB Media. See >  Multimedia & Utilities  > USB Media  .
Browser - Use Browser to browse the Internet from the vehicle’s infotainment screen display. See >  Multimedia & Utilities  > Browser  .
WARNING
Do not use the Infotainment screen when driving, as distraction from the road can cause an accident leading to serious injury and death.
Media widget
When you tap on a Media Widget, the associated media source will open in full screen.
Widget overview:
Media Source Information
Media infotaiment detail
Media Controls (Previous, Play/Pause, Next)
Media widget list:
Radio FM
Bluetooth
USB Media
Android Auto
Apple CarPlay
Radio DAB (if available)
Vivi Media (if available)
Alexa Media (if available)
VNE Podcast (if available)
Radio
Use the FM listening radio application to listen to radio stations, which you can find on the infotainment screen.
Operating the Radio
Radio Overview
Media source: Radio/USB/Bluetooth/...
Rescan radio
Search stations
Favorite radio stations
Available radio stations
Radio Bar(Seek/scan/station skip)
Launching Radio app﻿:
Tap  App Library    >  Media App    >  Radio   .
OR
Tap on Media Widget in Home page on screen.
Station List
The radio station list can be updated by scanning for available nearby stations in each radio frequency band. If available, the station name and radio frequency is displayed on the screen. The  Radio Bar    below the list of stations allows the seek/scan and station skip functions.
To manually search a station:
Tap Search   icon   on top right corner.
Enter station frequency in Search field.
Matching stations will appear below the search field. Select your preferred station.
NOTE
The station list will automatically refresh after a period of time.
Radio Favorites
Favorites can be saved from FM﻿ stations lists.
To save a Favorites station:
From FM﻿ station list, tap the heart icon next to the station you wish to add as a Favorites﻿.
The  Heart  icon will illuminate.﻿
The station will now appear in Favorites list﻿.
To view Favorites:
To view the list of Favorites Stations, tap  Favorites  in the Radio App.
To remove a Favorites station:
From Favorites list, tap  Three Dots  icon next to a Favorites and select  Remove Favorite .
OR
To remove from Favorites, from the main station list tap the  Heart  icon.
To rename a favorite station:
Select the favorite station to be renamed and tap  Three Dots  icon.
Tap  Rename .
Change name.
Tap  Save .
To top your favorite radio station:
Select the radio station to be topped and tap  Three Dot  icon.
Tap  Move to top .
The radio station has been topped up.
To rearrange favorite Stations:
Tap and hold the station to rearrange in the station list.
Drag the station to desired position.
Release station. The Favorites station will drop and snap into highlighted position.
WARNING
Continuous use of Infotainment screen controls when driving may lead to distraction causing an accident, leading to serious injuries or death.
Sustained exposure to high sound levels greater than 85 decibels may cause hearing damage.
NOTE
The Favorites list will be sorted in sequential order with the most recently added station at the top.
Some radio stations may be out of range. These stations will remain stored under Favorites but will be automatically removed from the FM list.
A maximum of 30 FM stations can be favorited.
Bluetooth Audio
Use Bluetooth to connect to a valid Bluetooth device and listen to stored or streaming audio/video via Bluetooth Media. Bluetooth Media is available as part of the Music App.
For more information about Bluetooth connections, see >   Settings >  Devices Settings .
Bluetooth Audio Overview when connected
Media source: Radio/USB/Bluetooth/...
Device Name
Current Track/Artist
Progress bar
Play/Pause/Track skip
Playing Media
To launch Bluetooth Media:
Tap  App Library    >  Media App    >  Bluetooth Media   .
OR
Tap on Media Widget in Home page on screen.
To change Bluetooth devices:
Tap  Drop down arrow  next to the device name  .
Select available Bluetooth device from the list.
To change track:
You can change track via use controls  .
WARNING
Do not operate a mobile device while driving as distraction from the road can cause an accident leading to serious injury and death.
NOTE
When Bluetooth is selected and sound is inaudible, check the volume of the infotainment system and mobile device.
USB Media
Connect to a valid USB storage device to play the available audio and video content. USB Media is available as part of the Music App. For more information about USB connections, see >   USB Ports & Power Outlets  .
To launch USB Media:
Insert a USB containing Media content in the front USB Data Port.
Tap  App Library    >  Media App    >  USB Media   .
OR
Tap on Media Widget in Home page on screen.
Supported USB Media file types:
Music: M4A, AAC, AMR, WAV, MP3, OGG, FLAC
Video: MP4, WEBM, MKV, 3GP
USB Media Player
Media Player Overview
The USB media player provides details of the current playing media and media playback controls.
Expand Icon
Queue
Play Folder Name
Equalizer Screen
Song Title/Artist Name
Song Progress Bar
Media Controls- Shuffle, Previous, Play/Pause, Next, Repeat
USB Media tabs
On main screen of USB Media you may find:
Recents
Artists
Genres
Videos
Folders
Recents
This page shows a list of recently played media through the USB Media device.
NOTE
Recents shows maximum of 20 recently played songs.
Artists
This page shows a list of available Artists on the USB Media device.
Genres
This page shows a list of available music Genres on the USB Media device.
Videos
This page shows a list of available Video files in the USB Media device.
NOTE
Video is disabled while driving.
Folders
This page shows a list of available Folders that contain media files on the USB Media device.
NOTE
Only Folders containing media files are displayed on screen.
USB Search
This feature can be used to search for any media content in the USB media device by pressing the Search icon.
To Search a file in USB Media:
Tap  Search    icon.
Type Media name in the  Search  field.
Tap  Search .
NOTE
Search icon and keyboard will be disabled while driving.
Browser
The Browser allows the driver and passengers to browse the Internet from the vehicle’s touchscreen. The vehicle must be connected to either a Wi-Fi access point or have an active eSim subscription to launch the browser.
NOTE
The Web Browser requires a Wi-Fi or cellular connection, local carrier charges will apply.
If the gear mode is in Park (P), you can use the web browser in full screen.
If the gear mode is in Drive (D), Neutral (N) or Reverse (R), you cannot use the web browser.
To launch the Browser/Internet App:
On the touchscreen, tap  App Library    >  Web Browser   .
Games
The Infotainment system may include some fun games to enjoy while in Camp mode or while waiting for the vehicle to charge. Games will be listed in the App Library, when launched will be displayed on the Infotainment screen with sound provided by the vehicle’s sound system. Examples of games that may be included:
Baja Big Air
Nancy Drew
Sugar Pop Paradise
Detail on how to play each game can be found inside each App once launched.
To launch a game:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap the game you wish to launch.
WARNING
Never attempt to play games on the Infotainment screen while the vehicle is in motion. Always ensure the vehicle is parked safely, the vehicle park brake is engaged and Park (P) is selected before launching a Game App.
NOTE
Availability of games on the infotainment system may vary depending on the car variant and market region.
Online Media (Audio & Video Streaming)
Some Online media may not be available, depending on your vehicle version and market.
Available Audio streamings are:
Alexa Media
VNE Podcast
Available Video streamings are:
FPT Play
TuneIn
Alexa Media
USE Alexa Media to enjoy Alexa-powered media playback in the vehicle. Alexa appears as a media source with current playback info on the infotainment screen.
Available Alexa sources are:
Amazon Music
Spotify
TuneIn
iHeartRadio
Deezer
Pandora
SXM
Saan
Kindle
Audible
To launch Alexa Media﻿:
Tap  App Library    >  Media App    >  Alexa Media   .
OR
Tap on Media Widget in Home page on screen.
VNE Podcast (VN Only)
Use this feature to download and listen to Podcasts in digital audio files on a variety of topics.
To launch VNE Podcast:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap VNE Podcast  .
VNE Podcast tabs
On main screen of VNE Podcast you may find:
Home : Users can browse by Topic or Podcast, and search for what they need.
Library : Downloaded podcasts are saved in the Library.
Recents : The list of Podcasts that have been played will automatically be saved in Recents.
To Search for Podcasts:
Tap Search   icon .
Type name of the podcast in the Search field.
Tap  Search .
FPT Play (VN Only)
If available, use FPT Play App to view Media and Video content. Available viewable content may include:
Movies
TV series
Live television channels
Sports events
Music
To watch Media or Video using FPT Play app:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap FPT Play  .
Tap on any Show or Movie.
NOTE
Use FPT Play while the vehicle is not in driving. When driving, FPT Play is disabled except for the close app function.
TuneIn
If available, use TuneIn App to view news, radio, sports, music, and podcasts.
To launch TuneIn:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap TuneIn  .

## Drive view

Overview Driver View Area
Vehicles with Integrated IPC
The Driver View Area is located on the left side of the Infotainment screen and displays vehicle and system status information along with providing access or adjustments to key vehicle controls. The Driver View Area replaces many of the displays and controls traditionally supplied through an instrument cluster or physical switches and buttons.
Key features of Driver View Area are listed in Display Overview:
Drive mode
Displays the selected drive mode
READY indicator light
The indicator light comes on, indicating that the vehicle is ready for driving
Gear selected
Displays current selected gear
Warning lights and indicators
Displays all critical vehicle alert Telltales and Status lights
Regen view
Displays the working status of regenerative braking
Speedometer
Displays current speed of the vehicle
Battery information
Displays the status of the battery (remaining battery, available for travel)
ODO/Trip Information
Displays the odometer reading of vehicle
Car control area
Provides quick access to control and adjust certain vehicle features
Seatbelt reminder
Displays the seatbelt warning Telltale and Status lights
Vehicles with Separate IPC
The Driver View Area on the instrument cluster displays critical driving-related information, including vehicle status, warnings, and driving data.
Key features of Driver View Area are listed in Display Overview:
Drive mode
Displays the selected drive mode
READY indicator light
The indicator light comes on, indicating that the vehicle is ready for driving
Gear selected
Displays current selected gear
Warning lights and indicators
Displays all critical vehicle alert Telltales and Status lights
Power & Regen view
Displays the energy consumption rate and the charge/discharge status
Speedometer
Displays current speed of the vehicle
Battery information
Displays the status of the battery (remaining battery, available for travel)
ODO/Trip Information
Displays the odometer reading of vehicle
Driving Information
Displays vehicle status, charging state, ADAS information, and some critical information
Entertainment area
Displays corresponding features when functions are running, such as ADAS prompt, active call, multimedia, turn-by-turn navigation, tire status indicator (TPMS), and weather
Seatbelt reminder
Displays the seatbelt warning Telltale and Status lights
Warning Lights and Indicators
All important vehicle system related warnings and alerts are shown on the Infotainment screen display in the lower section of Driver View Area. Tap on the pop-up to view further detail of each warning.
In addition to a warning notification, a corresponding telltale may also illuminate on the screen. Telltales will stay illuminated until the vehicle fault is repaired or resolved.
Telltale Icons:
Position Lights
Low Beam
Turn Indicator/Hazard Lights
Vehicle Ready to Drive
High Beam
ABS Malfunction
Park Brake Malfunction
ESC/TCS OFF
Low Power Mode
Safety Warnings
Parking Brake Applied
Brake System Faults
EV System Malfunction
Airbag Malfunction
Seatbelt Reminder
Auto Hold Active
Door not closed reminder
Tailgate not closed reminder
Car Control
The Car Control Area is part of the Driver View on infotaiment screen. By tapping the shortcuts in this area, certain vehicle functions can be quickly accessed and adjusted. Depending on the selection, either the App View window or a Quick Control dialog will open.
Car Control Shortcuts
Car Control Shortcuts Overview
ADAS Settings Button
PDC Mute Button
Trunk Button (if available)
Mirrors Button
Rear window lock Button
Drive Button
ADAS Settings Button
Tap this button to open ADAS Settings App.
PDC Mute Button
Tap this button to Mute/Unmute Parking Assist Chime (PDC). PDC Mute button only displays when PDC is activated.
Trunk Button (if available)
Tap this button to open/close the trunk .
Mirrors Button
Tap this button to open the Mirror Adjustment interface and adjust mirror-related functions as needed.
Rear window lock Button
Tap this button to turn on/off the rear window lock.
Drive button
Tap this button to open the Driving Preferences interface and quickly control driving-related functions.

## Navigation (HNAV)

Navigation (SDK HERE MAP)
If available, Maps (Here maps) allows users to view the current vehicle location, search for destinations, and receive navigation guidance.
To open Navigation App (SDK HERE MAP):
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap Maps.
OR
Tap  Navigation widget  on the Home Screen.
NOTE
Only one navigation source can provide active guidance at a time. Available navigation sources include HERE Map, Vietmap, Android Auto, and Apple CarPlay. Starting navigation from one source stops or suspends navigation from the other sources.
WARNING
Be aware of all local traffic laws and road characteristics of your region. It is always your responsibility to determine the safety of the route being suggested. Drive the vehicle appropriately according to current road and environmental conditions.
Always follow road traffic rules and regulations even when driving with the assistance of the Navigation System. The Navigation system is not a substitute for safe driving.
Navigation (Viet map - VN only)
If available, Vietmap allows users to view the current vehicle location, search for destinations, view map-based speed limit information, and receive navigation guidance.
To open Vietmap
Tap  App Library    >  Vietmap .
Or, Tap  Vietmap Widget  in Homepage.
NOTE
Only one navigation source can provide active guidance at a time. Available navigation sources include HERE Map, Vietmap, Android Auto, and Apple CarPlay. Starting navigation from one source stops or suspends navigation from the other sources.
WARNING
Be aware of all local traffic laws and road characteristics of your region. It is always your responsibility to determine the safety of the route being suggested. Drive the vehicle appropriately according to current road and environmental conditions.
Always follow road traffic rules and regulations even when driving with the assistance of the Navigation System. The Navigation system is not a substitute for safe driving.

## Phone & Projection

Phone
The Bluetooth capable Infotainment system and steering wheel controls allows hands-free calling and receiving of phone calls﻿.
A compatible Bluetooth phone must be connected to use the phone app.
CAUTION
In order to minimize driver distraction, prior to driving and while the vehicle is parked:
- Complete all pairing of mobile devices.
- Familiarize yourself with all system functionality and controls.
- Organize contact and call lists clearly and avoid duplicates.
NOTE
Not all Bluetooth phones support all functions.
To Launch the Phone App:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Phone App   .
NOTE
When there is an ongoing call, the user can also click the phone sticky widget on the Homescreen to open the Phone App.
Using the Phone App:
The following tabs/pages are available on the phone app:
Recents – Shows all call history when phone connected
Contacts – Lists all available contacts from phone
Keypad – Allows manual entry and dialing of phone numbers
Settings – Provides options to enable/disable Do Not Disturb and manage auto-reply messages
NOTE
Upon initial connection, please allow time for all contacts to be synced from phone.
Steering Wheel phone button behavior:
Phone app  functions can be controlled via buttons on the right wheel of the steering wheel, see >   Steering Wheel > Steering Wheel Switches  .
Recent
The Recent tab lets the user see past calls from their phone. The recent call list can be viewed by tapping on the Recent tab at the Phone app window. Tapping on any entry in the Recent list will initiate a call to that number.
Types of Call Icons:
: Incoming Call
: Declined or Missed Call
: Outgoing Call
Contacts
Phone contacts can be viewed by tapping on the  Contacts  tab on the  Phone app  window. Contacts stored in the memory of a paired phone will be synced to the vehicle’s contact list. The contact list is synced each time the phone is connected to the system.
NOTE
The search box appears in its disabled state if there is data indexing process.
To search for a Contact:
Tap  Search    icon on the contacts page.
Enter Contact Name/Number in the  Search  field.
NOTE
Previously searched contacts will be displayed in recent searches.
Up to 10 recent searches are displayed in the recent list below the search text field.
Keypad
Dial the phone number manually using the keypad.
To call a number, enter the phone number using the keypad. If the number entered matches with a saved contact, it will show the contact details on the screen.
NOTE
Pressing and holding “0” will enter “+” in the text box.
Incoming Call
During an incoming call, the caller ID will appear on the Infotainment screen. If the contact is saved in the user’s phone then the person’s name and number is also displayed. To answer an incoming call, tap on the green Accept button on the screen or short press the right scroll wheel on the steering wheel when the green Accept button on the screen is highlighted. To Decline a call, tap on the red Decline button on the screen or short press the right scroll wheel on the steering wheel when the red Decline button on the screen is highlighted.
The following options are available during a call:
Full Incoming Call Window
Contact information
Accept Call
Reject Call
Incoming Call Banner
When a new incoming call is present, an Incoming Call notification will appear on the Infotainment screen. The notification will contain a caller ID, Accept and Decline options. Taping on the notification will take the user to the incoming call window.
NOTE
If the Do Not Disturb function is enabled, incoming calls will be automatically rejected and responded to with the selected message.
Active call / Single Call:
While a call is active, the call duration and contact details will be shown.
Expand Keypad
End Call
Mute Call
Switch to Handset Device
NOTE
When the user exits the Active call window to use other apps or go to the Home page on screen, the active call window minimizes and docks a card on top of the Infotainment screen.
Incoming Call over an Active Call:
Accepting a second call will put the active call on Hold and switch to the new call. The call on hold will be displayed on the right side of the Active Call window.
Tap on the Caller ID to switch back to the call on Hold. This will put the second call on hold and it will be displayed on the right side of the Active Call window.
Settings
Phone settings can be viewed by tapping on the  Settings  tab on the  Phone app  window. This allows the user to adjust the following settings:
Tap to toggle  Do Not Disturb  to OFF/ON
Select a present Auto Replay Message
Create custom messages
NOTE
Up to 20 custom messages can be saved, each limited to 160 characters.
USB Ports & Power Outlets
USB Ports
The vehicle is equipped with 4 USB ports:
Front row: Two USB ports are located on the front of the center console, below the center air vents.
Rear row: Two USB ports are located on the rear of the center console, below the rear air vents.
Front USB Ports
1 Type A USB Port  . Maximum output power: 7.5W.
1 Type C USB Port  . Maximum output power: 60W.
NOTE
Type A USB Port   can be used to transfer data (i.e. play music, video) and charge devices.
Type C USB Port   can be used only for charging.
Rear USB Ports
1 Type C USB Port  . Maximum output power: 60W.
1 Type C USB Port  . Maximum output power: 18W.
WARNING
It is recommended to connect an input device only when the vehicle is stationary. Trying to connect an input device while driving may cause distraction and lead to an accident.
CAUTION
Connecting multiple devices using a USB hub is not recommended, this can prevent connected devices from charging or from being recognized by the infotainment system.
Unplug all accessories when not in use to prevent an electrical short if the unconnected end contacts another power source or liquid.
NOTE
All rear USB ports are for charging devices only.
Always disconnect the USB cable after use.
Power Outlet
The vehicle is equipped with 2 power outlets.
Front Power Outlet   is located inside the center armrest compartment.
Rear Power Outlet   is located in the left side of the rear luggage compartment.
To access the low voltage outlet, remove the protective cap. The power outlet is suitable for accessories with a voltage of 12V to 24V (120W to 250W).
WARNING
Close the Power Outlet cap when not in use.
Do not allow children to use or play with the Power Outlet. Children may get seriously injured.
Do not use the Power Outlet for electric heaters while sleeping. Doing so can cause serious injury or death.
Do not insert foreign objects into the Power Outlet. Doing so can cause serious injury or death.
Do not use faulty electrical appliances. Doing so can cause serious injury or death.
Do not insert inappropriate or badly fitting plugs into the Power Outlet. Doing so can cause serious injury or death.
Do not jump start a vehicle using the Power Outlet.
The power socket and an accessory’s connector can become hot. Touching hot surfaces may cause burning.
CAUTION
Some electronic devices and accessories can cause electronic interference when plugged into a Vehicle’s Power Outlet. These devices may cause excessive audio static and cause a malfunction in other electronic systems or devices used in the vehicle.
Use devices equipped with batteries with reverse current protection. Otherwise the current from the battery may flow into the vehicle’s electrical system and may cause system malfunction.
Leaving electrical equipment plugged in for an extended period of time while the vehicle is off will drain the battery. Always unplug electrical equipment when not in use.
Wireless Charger (if equipped)
The wireless charger provided in the front console of the vehicle can charge Qi 2.0 compatible devices wirelessly. To charge a compatible device, place the device on the charging pads to start charging the device. The wireless charger can be set to On or Off depending on the user’s preference.
The charger will show charging status and any relevant notifications of the phone on the Infotainment screen. It also reminds the user if the phone is left behind in the car upon exit (phone forget reminder).
NOTE
The vehicle must be on and all doors closed to enable wireless charging.
CAUTION
Do not place objects between the phone and the charger (for example, credit cards, key cards, coins, keys, metal objects, etc.).
Foreign Object Detection (FOD) is designed to detect objects before power transfer. Foreign objects placed on the charging pad may interrupt charging or cause a charging fault.
Near Field Communication (NFC) enabled cards may get damaged if kept on the wireless charger pad.
Avoid spilling water or other liquids on the wireless charger as excessive or repeated spillage can cause malfunction. (The charger is IP54 rated).
NOTE
To correctly charge the phone it must be in direct contact with the wireless charger.
The Lightning Bolt   icon in the status bar indicates when wireless charging is active.
NOTE
When the device is fully charged, the Lightning bolt icon disappears and a notification is displayed.
How to Turn On/Off Wireless Charging:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  Vehicle Settings    >  Wireless Charging .
Toggle to turn  On / Off  wireless charging.
To turn On/Off Wireless Charging from quick controls of the touchscreen:
Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Wireless Charging    button   to turn  On / Off  wireless charging.
Wireless Charging Fault
If there is a fault with the wireless charging system, a corresponding warning will be shown on the touchscreen. Contact a VinFast Service Center.
Android Auto
Android Auto is used to mirror features of an Android device, such as a smartphone, on the vehicle’s Infotainment screen. Android Auto can be launched on the Infotainment screen when a compatible device is connected.
Connecting to Android Auto
Android Auto only can be launched by connecting a compatible device either via a USB cable or Bluetooth.
For more information about Bluetooth connections, see >   Settings > Devices Settings  .
Note
Setup of Android Auto can be done only when the vehicle is in Park (P).
To launch Android Auto via USB Cable:
Connect the android device to the vehicle via a USB cable, plug a USB into your vehicle’s USB port, then plug the other end of the cable into your phone.
Tap  App Libiary    >  Android Auto    on the infotainment screen.
Follow the infotainment screen instructions to connect  Android Auto.
Once connected the Android Auto icon will show active on the status bar.
To Disconnect Android Auto via USB Cable:
Disconnect the USB cable from the phone or vehicle.
Apple CarPlay
Apple CarPlay is used to mirror features of an iOS device, such as a smartphone, on the vehicle’s Infotainment screen. Apple CarPlay can be launched on the Infotainment screen when a compatible device is connected.
Connecting to Apple CarPlay
Apple CarPlay only can be launched by connecting a compatible device either via a USB cable or Bluetooth.
For more information about Bluetooth connections, see >   Settings > Devices Settings  .
Note
Setup of Apple CarPlay can be done only when the vehicle is in Park (P).
To launch Apple CarPlay via USB Cable:
Connect the iOS device to the vehicle via a USB cable, plug a USB into your vehicle’s USB port, then plug the other end of the cable into your phone.
Tap  App Libiary    >  Apple CarPlay    on the infotainment screen.
Follow the infotainment screen instructions to connect Apple CarPlay.
Once connected, the Apple CarPlay icon will show active on the status bar.
To Disconnect Apple CarPlay via USB Cable:
Disconnect the USB cable from the phone or vehicle.

## VinFast App

Overview and Key Features
The VinFast App is a mobile application that provides various useful services for VinFast vehicles.
The information about the VinFast App’s features in this user guide is for reference only. The actual interface and functions may vary depending on the region, vehicle model, and release time.
Some of the highlights of the VinFast App may include:
Viewing battery charging status and vehicle condition.
Using remote control features such as the air conditioning system, door locks, etc.
Searching for charging station information, scheduling service appointments, or requesting roadside assistance.
Planning trips and sending them directly to the vehicle (if available).
Viewing the current vehicle status.
Accessing the user manual.
CAUTION
The VinFast App requires either a WiFi or cellular connection. Data fees may apply.
Registration and Sign In
To use the VinFast App, you need to download the app and register an account.
To download the App:
Visit the Apple App Store (iOS) or Google Play Store (Android).
Search for and download the VinFast App.
To register:
Open the app and tap Sign Up on the login page.
Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions.
Enter a Username (email address) and create a password.
Check your inbox for a verification email and confirm your registration.
Set up Fingerprint / Face ID (optional).
To Sign In:
Tap the VinFast icon on your phone to open the app.
Enter your registered email and password.
Forgotten Password:
If you forget your password, you can reset it by:
Tapping Forgot Password at the bottom of the login page.
Entering your registered email address.
Tapping Reset Password.
Checking your email and following the instructions to create a new password.
Vehicle and User Management
Guest Homepage
Before owning a VinFast vehicle, you can use the app to explore detailed specifications and services. When you launch the app and register, the guest home page will appear.
Linking VinFast App with a vehicle
Vehicle Owner
When purchasing a VinFast vehicle, the dealer will assist you in creating a VinFast ID, which identifies you as the vehicle owner.
Use the email address registered with your VinFast ID when creating your account in the VinFast App for automatic linking to your vehicle.
If the vehicle information does not sync automatically in the app or if your vehicle is not linked to your account, please contact your VinFast dealer for support.
For Secondary Drivers
You can also add or remove secondary drivers to use the VinFast App.
Contact the vehicle owner and ask to be added as a driver.
The owner will use Role Management to add the additional driver’s account to their vehicle.
The additional driver should provide the same email address they used to register the VinFast App.
The vehicle owner will send an invitation for the additional driver to add a vehicle.
The additional driver may:
Access and control owner’s vehicle using the VinFast App.
Add / Remove one additional driver account.
Home - VinFast ID. Tap on General Info on the Guest Homepage for more information.
Overview of the Owner’s Home Page
The home page provides users with key features, including:
Current vehicle information
Remote control (if available)
Battery and charging status
Driving assistance (if available)
Vehicle settings
Vehicle services
Notifications
Switching between owned vehicles
Current Vehicle Information
Displays an overview of the vehicle, including:
Battery capacity
Estimated driving range
Vehicle status (parked or in motion)
Total mileage
NOTE
These details may vary depending on the vehicle model or market.
Remote Control (if available)
If supported, this feature allows quick access and control of certain vehicle settings, such as: Air conditioning control, door locking/unlocking.
NOTE
Features may differ based on the vehicle model or market.
Battery and Charging
The VinFast App provides battery and charging status to help you monitor and manage your vehicle efficiently.
To access Battery and Charging details: Tap Battery & Charging from the home page
Battery & Charging Page Displays:
Charging target
Battery level (%)
Charging status
Battery leasing information (if applicable)
Nearby charging stations and availability
To change the charging target (if available):
Tap Charging Level.
Use the slider to set a new target.
Tap Save.
Charging History:
Tap Charging History to view past charging sessions by date.
Each session includes:
Charging date & time
Charging cost
Vehicle Settings
Some features may not be available depending on your vehicle version and region.
Features include:
Software updates (if available)
Vehicle information
Virtual assistant (if available)
Driving data
Vehicle Software Updates
You will receive a notification when a new software update is available. Check notifications or go to Vehicle Software Updates for details.
Virtual Assistant (if available)
The virtual assistant allows you to control the vehicle using voice commands.
Open the Virtual Assistant section. Add a new command or select a suggested command.
Vehicle Information
Provides details related to your vehicle.
Driving statistic
Driving statistic includes:
Distance
Energy
Energy electricity
Services
Some vehicle support services may not be available, depending on your vehicle version and market.
Available services:
Service booking
Roadside assistance
Vehicle alert
Test drive
Service booking
The VinFast App allows easy scheduling of service appointments.
To book a service:
Tap Book Service in the Vehicle Services section.
Fill in the required information and follow the instructions.
A confirmation notification will appear in the app.
Your request details will be stored in the Notifications section.
Roadside Assistance
The VinFast App allows you to request roadside assistance directly from your mobile device.
To request roadside assistance
Tap Roadside Assistance in the Vehicle Services section.
Tap Create A Request.
Fill in the required information and follow the instructions.
A confirmation notification will be displayed in the app.
Vehicle Alerts
You can check for any vehicle warnings in the VinFast App. Even if someone else is driving the car, you will receive alerts about any detected issues.
Based on the type of warning, the app may suggest:
Booking a service appointment
Requesting roadside assistance
Referring to the user manual with a direct link
To check for vehicle alerts:
Tap Vehicle Alerts in the Vehicle Services section.
A list of current alerts will appear (if any).
Tap an alert for more details.
Follow the prompts to book a service, request roadside assistance, or view the relevant user manual section.
All actions related to vehicle alerts will be synced with your vehicle.
Test Drive
The app provides an interface for booking test drives for VinFast vehicles.
Notifications
Please note that app functionality may vary depending on your country, vehicle model, or app updates. The VinFast App may send notifications and messages at any time.
Notification Types:
Vehicle alerts
Transaction activities
Messages from VinFast
To access notifications:
From the Home Page, tap the notifications icon  .
Use the search bar to find specific notifications or browse the list.
Filter notifications by type.
Switching Between Owned Vehicles
This feature allows users to switch between multiple owned vehicles and view their details.
To switch vehicles: Tap the switch icon   in the top corner of the screen.
Maps
Maps overview
Search bar
Quick search
Find my car
Location tracking
Map view
Find locations
Search for your destination by entering an address in the search bar or selecting from quick search suggestions.
Find My Car
To locate your vehicle, tap the Find My Car button. The app will pinpoint its location and display key details about your car.
Map View
In addition to the default view, you can select additional map features such as:
Satellite view
Traffic conditions
Dark mode
Shopping
This section provides information about:
Your orders
Current VinFast vehicle models
Car accessories
You can easily track your order status, explore the latest VinFast models, and find suitable accessories for your vehicle.
Account
This section provides key features such as:
Promotional offers
Payments
Settings
Help & Support
My Vehicles
Payments
You can choose to pay via credit card or ATM card.
To add a payment card:
Go to Payment Methods.
Tap Add Card.
Select your card type.
Enter the required details.
Tap Save.
NOTE
You can add multiple cards and set a primary payment card.
To make a payment:
Tap Bill List.
Select an invoice to pay (Charging / Battery subscription).
Tap Pay and follow the instructions.
A confirmation notification will be sent after successful payment.
NOTE
If you have a pending invoice, a payment reminder will appear on the Home page on screen.
Settings
Users can customize and access the following key functions:
Feature
Description
Setting
Customize language, measurement units, notifications
Driver Management
Transfer vehicle ownership, add secondary drivers
Account Information
Edit owner name and phone number
Password & Security
Reset password, delete account, login options
Help & Support
This section includes:
FAQs
Support Requests
About App
Owner Manual
Terms & Conditions

## Climate Control System

Climate Controls
The climate control system cools, heats, filters and dehumidifies the air in the passenger compartment. Generally, the system works most efficiently when the windows are closed.
Climate Control Overview
Below is an overall description of air conditioning control interface on the vehicle.
To open Climate Control Menu:
Tap  Fan Speed    button on the Climate bar, which is part of the bottom bar.
Front Zone Controls:
Front Zone Controls provide some function follow:
Air distribution control
Auto mode
Air conditioner (AC)
Maximum air conditioning
Recirculation mode
Fan speed adjustment
Temperature controls
Temperature synchronization (Sync)
Air ionization
Seat controls (Control cooling level) (if available)
Rear Zone Controls:
Rear Zone Controls provide some function follow:
Fan speed adjustment
Cooling/Air-Conditioning
To turn on/off the Air Conditioning system:
Tap on the  A/C  icon to turn on the air conditioning, tap again to turn it off.
Maximum Cooling
To turn on/off the Maximum Cooling:
Tap on  MAX AC  icon to turn on maximum cooling mode, tap again to turn it off.
NOTE
Water may drip from underneath the vehicle when it is in cooling mode. Traces of water on the ground are normal and are not a sign of leakage or malfunction.
If no cooling is required, switch off the A/C cooling system to increase range efficiency.
Air Vents
Front Windshield Defrosting/Defogging Vents
Front Side Windows Defrosting/Defogging Vents
Driver Side Air Vent
Front Central Air Vent
Passenger Side Air Vent
Front Footwell Air Vent
Rear Central Air Vent
Note
The air distribution is adjusted by pressing the appropriate buttons on the Infotainment screen.
Adjustable Vents
To adjust the driver and passenger side air vents
Push the air outlet adjustment knob up, down, left and right to adjust the direction of the air outlet.
Push the air outlet adjustment knob outward to the maximum position to close the air outlet.
To adjust the front central air vent
Push the air outlet adjustment knob up, down, left and right to adjust the direction of the air outlet.
Push the air outlet adjustment knob outward to the maximum position to close the air outlet.
To adjust the rear central air vent
Push the air outlet adjustment knob up, down, left and right to adjust the direction of the air outlet.
Push the air outlet adjustment knob outward to the maximum position to close the air outlet.
CAUTION
Do not place objects over the air vents.
Ensure the air intakes at the base of the windshield are clear of ice, snow or any other debris such as leaves. Blockage of the intakes may prevent air flow into the vehicle affecting the performance of the climate controls.
Air Temperature, Speed & Distribution
Temperature
The temperature of the air conditioning in the car can be adjusted through the infotainment screen.
To adjust the cabin temperature:
Use temperature control button on the climate bar to adjust temperature:
Tap  >  button to increase the temperature.
Tap  <  button to decrease the temperature.
NOTE
In cold conditions, it will take a few minutes for the heater to warm up and reach desired temperature.
Fan Speed
To adjust fan speed:
Tap  Fan Speed    button on the climate bar to open climate control interface.
Tap or slide the  slider  to change fan speed.
If the fan is switched  OFF , the climate control is also  Deactivated .
NOTE
After the air conditioning wind speed increases, the air conditioning noise will also increase.
Air Distribution
To adjust air distribution:
Tap  Fan Speed    button on the climate bar to open climate control interface.
Tap  blowing mode  button   to change air distribution.
Blowing mode:
The air conditioning airflow blows towards the front windshield and front side window
The air conditioning airflow blows towards the face
The air conditioning airflow blows towards the feet
NOTE
The face airflow and front windshield airflow cannot be used simultaneously.
Auto Operation
The Climate Control System controls the air speed, distribution, temperature and recirculation. In addition, it also governs the operating temperature cycle of the air conditioning﻿ system. When AUTO mode is activated, the system operates automatically.
To activate Auto mode:
Tap  Fan Speed    button on the climate bar to open climate control interface.
Tap  Auto  button to activate auto mode.
NOTE
The climate control system will switch from AUTO Mode to Manual Mode, if the fan speed, blower direction, A/C, Max A/C, or demist mode are changed manually.
In hot ambient conditions, recirculation may be automatically selected to increase the speed of cooling of the cabin and to reduce energy consumption.
For convenience and comfort the following is recommended:
Activate Auto mode.
For optimized air distribution, open all air vents.
Adjust the temperature as needed for the best comfort.
Manual Operation
The driver can control and adjust all climate control settings manually through the Infotainment screen.
To activate manual mode when auto mode is activated:
Manual mode is activated when any of the following settings are manually changed: fan speed, blower direction, A/C, Max A/C, or demist mode.
Operate the vehicle’s air conditioning through the Infotainment screen
Function
State On / Off
Action
Air Flow Distribution
Tap to switch air flow distribution mode
A/C
Tap to turn on/off front A/C
MAX A/C
Tap to turn on/off MAX A/C
Recirculation Mode
Tap to switch air inside/outside recirculation
Windshield Demist
Tap to activate/deactivate windshield demist
Temperature
Tap to decrease/increase the temperature
Fan Speed Adjustment
Tap or slide to adjust fan speed
SYNC
Tap to sync driver and passenger settings
Air Ionizer
Turn Air Ionizer mode ON and OFF
Front Windscreen Defrost and Defog
The front windscreen and a portion of the front windows can be defrosted or defogged using this function.
To turn on/off the front windscreen defrost/defog:
Tap  Front Defrost/Defog    button on climate bar to turn on/off front windscreen demist.
WARNING
A fogged windshield can reduce visibility and may result in serious injury or an accident for the driver.
NOTE
In warm and very humid ambient air conditions, the windscreen may mist up from the outside when cold air is directed at it. If the windscreen mists up from outside, activate windscreen wiper and demist.
Cabin Filtration
The Climate Control System filters the incoming air to remove dust, pollen, and contaminants. Replace the Cabin Air Filter as per the specified maintenance schedule, for better performance. See >   Fluids, Lubricants and Parts > Cabin Air Filter   for replacement instructions.
While driving through very dusty or polluted air, it is recommended to use the recirculation mode to reduce the amount of contaminants entering the vehicle cabin. See >   Climate Control System > Recirculation Mode  .
Air Ionizer
The Air Ionizer is a feature that adds ions to the air to trap air contaminants. Harmful particles and germs in the air can be reduced by ionization. This helps to improve air quality for individuals in the passenger compartment and aids in Cabin Filtration.
To activate the Air Ionizer:
Tap  Air Ionizer    button on the climate control interface to turn this feature On/Off.
NOTE
Regular cleaning of the vehicle interior is recommended, as this will help maintain the Cabin Air Filter and Climate Control System.
Recirculation Mode
Recirculation mode helps facilitate air circulation between the inside and outside of the vehicle cabin.
To adjust air distribution:
Tap  Fan Speed    button   on the climate bar to open climate control interface.
Tap  Recirculation mode  button   to change the circulation mode.
Recirculation mode:
When inside circulation mode is enabled, the existing cabin air inside the vehicle will be circulated and filtered.
When outside recirculation mode is enabled, fresh air will be drawn into the vehicle cabin from outside.
When Auto recirculation mode is enabled, recirculation mode is controlled automatically.
WARNING
If the inside circulation mode is on and cooling is off, this can cause air humidity to increase in the vehicle cabin, causing the windows to fog up which can be dangerous while driving.
CAUTION
You should not use the outside air intake mode when it’s raining, as there is a risk of bringing moisture or water into the car.
Do not continuously use Recirculation mode in Normal Conditions, as less fresh air is not drawn into the cabin and the quality of air inside the cabin can deteriorate with time.
NOTE
Keep the exterior air intake vents clean at all times, to ensure optimal performance of the climate control system.
Climate Control System Maintenance
Air Intake
The exterior air intake vents located in front of the windshield must be kept clean to allow air flow into the Climate Control System. Remove leaves, debris, dirt, and snow.
NOTE
It is not recommended to park the vehicle under trees with small leaves, as the leaves can easily clog the vehicle’s drainage system. If the vehicle must be parked under such trees, or if it is operated during periods of prolonged heavy rain, the drainage system should be inspected regularly and cleaned as necessary.
Do not park the vehicle beneath exposed roof drainage outlets, as the large volume of water may exceed the drainage capacity of the vehicle’s drain hoses.
Passenger compartment air filter maintenance
The air filter can effectively filter out impurities in the air, ensuring the normal operation of the air conditioning system. The air filter has a long service life and should be replaced regularly. For instructions on how to replace the cabin air filter, See >   Fluids, Lubricants and Parts > Cabin Air Filter  .
NOTE
If the vehicle is driven in highly polluted or dusty conditions, it is recommended to inspect and replace the filter more often.
Regular operation of the AC System
The air conditioning (AC) needs to be used for a few minutes each month, regardless of the weather and time of the year. This is to ensure that components within the Climate Control System remain lubricated.
Servicing of the Climate Control System
In order to obtain the best performance from the Climate Control System, it must be maintained properly and periodically. Refer to the Vehicle Maintenance Schedule for details, see >   Maintenance Schedule > Maintenance Schedule Overview  .
The maintenance includes the following:
Heating and cooling performance check.
Inspection for any leakage.
Replacement of the refrigerant and pressure testing, if required.
Cleaning of the condenser and evaporator drain tube.
Air filter replacement.
WARNING
Servicing must be completed by a trained and certified technician. The refrigerant is toxic and must be contained. Failure to follow the above may lead to serious injury or death.
CAUTION
Before any connection is disconnected, the refrigerant must be removed and recovered from the system by a trained and certified technician.
Use only the approved refrigerant and air-conditioning compressor oil. Using non approved material may lead to permanent damage to the vehicle.
Venting refrigerants directly to the atmosphere is harmful to the environment and may also create unsafe conditions based on inhalation, combustion, frostbite, or other health-based concerns.
Rear Demist (if equipped)
Rear windshield heating can be used for demisting.
To turn on/off rear windscreen demist:
Tap rear defrost   button on climate bar to turn on/off rear windscreen demist.
NOTE
The rear demister will automatically turn off.

## Settings

Settings Overview
Use Settings App to control and adjust some of the infotainment and vehicle features and functions.
Following is the list of available Settings menu:
Settings App
Devices Settings
Wi-Fi Settings
Voice Assistant (if available)
Sound Settings
Display Settings
Security Settings
Vehicle Settings
Light Settings
General Settings
About
Storage Management (if available)
To access Settings App:
To enter the Settings App:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings   .
Devices Settings
Use Devices Settings to manage connection between the vehicle and portable media devices. Device Settings enables you to:
Search for and pair a new phone or media device
Switch between connected devices
Disconnect or delete existing devices
Manage connection settings for individual devices
To access Devices Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  Devices Settings   .
A device can be connected by any of the following methods:
Via Bluetooth - Go to Bluetooth settings on your device and select your vehicle name.
Via USB port - See >   USB Ports & Power Outlets  .
Via Device Connect - Select an available device from Device List.
The system will request confirmation of a  Pass Key  between the device and Infotainment screen when pairing a Bluetooth device for the first time. Please check for popups on the device.
NOTE
To pair a device via Bluetooth manually, the vehicle should be stationary or be moving at a speed of less than 3 km/h (1.8 mph). However, automatic connection to a previously paired phone is allowed when the vehicle is moving.
Device List Overview
Device List will show following:
Connected device
Devices available to connect
Previously connected devices
Current connection type
To Refresh device list:
Tap  Refresh  button.
To Disconnect a device:
Tap  Three dot    icon on the right side of device name.
Tap  Disconnect .
To Forget a device:
Tap  Three dot    icon on the right side of device name.
Tap  Forget .
Advanced Settings Overview
Pre-shared Key for Wireless Connection - Enables reset of the pre-shared key.
Wi-Fi Settings
Use Wi-Fi settings to manage Wi-Fi connections between the vehicle and portable media devices or other available networks.
To access Wi-Fi Settings﻿:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  Wi-Fi Settings   .
Wi-Fi
To turn Wi-Fi ON/OFF:
Toggle Wi-Fi  ON  or  OFF  on the  Wi-Fi  tab.
To connect to a Wi-Fi network:
Select the available network from the list.
Enter network Password (if required).
After a successful connection is established, the connected network will be shown in the Connected list.
To disconnect/forget a Wi-Fi network:
Tap Three dot   icon.
Tap  Disconnect/Forget .
To connect to a hidden Wi-Fi network:
Tap  + Hidden Network .
Select  Security  type.
Enter  Network name  and  Password  (if required).
Tap  Connect .
Hotspot (if available)
To turn Hotspot ON/OFF:
Toggle Allow Others to Join  ON  or  OFF  on the  Hotspot  tab.
NOTE
Hotspot is off by default.
With the hotspot ON, users can enter the hotspot password on their devices or scan the QR code on the infotainment screen for easy connection.
To change the hotspot password:
Tap the pencil icon.
Enter the new password.
NOTE
The password must contain at least 8 characters and at most 63 characters, and cannot contain spaces.
Changing the password will disconnect any currently connected devices.
To disconnect a hotspot device:
Tap Three dot   icon.
Tap  Disconnect .
To refresh connected device list:
Tap  Refresh  button.
Or, Wait for the list to update automatically every 5 seconds.
Virtual Assistant Settings
To access Voice Assistant Settings﻿:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  Voice Assistant Settings   .
Voice Assistant Basic Mode Overview (VN Only):
Virtual Assistant’s Basic Mode offers a simple and standard way to interact with your vehicle. You can use voice commands to control basic vehicle functions and search for information. In addition, you can adjust basic settings to customize how Virtual Assistant interacts with you.
Default Voice  - Sets the default accent and gender for voice assistant responses.
Response Mode  - Controls interaction style.
Show Captions  - When Virtual Assistant responds to your commands, captions will always appear on the screen.
Show Your Speech  - When the vehicle detects your speech, it will display a transcription of your words on the screen for easy reference and confirmation.
Wake Phrase: “VinFast ơi” or “Hey VinFast”  - Say the wake phrase to activate Virtual Assistant and use voice commands.
Voice Welcome on Startup  - When the vehicle starts, Virtual Assistant greets you and proactively offers helpful guidance.
Follow-up Mode  - Enables the feature to ask follow-up questions without repeating the wake phrase.
Continued conversation time (seconds)  - Sets how long the assistant listens for follow-up questions after a response.
NOTE
Personalized Voice replaces ViVi’s default voice with your personal voice from the VinFast account linked to the vehicle’s login profile. This requires that you have created a personal voice in the VinFast app and set it as ViVi’s voice. An internet connection is needed to apply it.
Voice Assistant Advanced Mode Overview (VN Only):
Virtual Assistant’s Advanced Mode enhances your driving experience with a more personalized and intelligent voice assistant. Use your voice to effortlessly control specialized vehicle features. As a trusted companion, Virtual Assistant adapts to your preferences, recognizes your voice, provides proactive suggestions to make your drive smoother and more enjoyable.
Personalized Voice  -Replaces Virtual Assistant’s default voice with your personal voice from the VinFast account linked to the vehicle’s login profile.
Proactive Suggestion  – Enables Virtual Assistant to provide follow-up suggestions based on your previous command, making each interaction smoother and more efficient.
Favorite Topics  – Allows Virtual Assistant to offer more relevant suggestions and information tailored to you based on your selected preferred topics.
NOTE
A personal voice must be created in the VinFast app and set as Virtual Assistant’s voice. An internet connection is required to apply the voice.
Upgrade your VF Connect plan to access Advanced Virtual Assistant.
Sound Settings
Use the Sound Settings to adjust the following:
Volume
Equalizer
Focus Zone
To access the Sound Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  Sound Settings   .
Volume
The Volume settings can be changed for each of the functions. Adjust the volume by using the slider controls.
To reset Sound Settings:
Tap  Reset  button.
The  Reset  soft key will set all volume settings to the default value of 15.
WARNING
Always pay attention to road and traffic conditions while driving.
Avoid using Infotainment screen while the vehicle is in motion, as it can cause distraction leading to an accident.
NOTE
When starting vehicle, if the audio volume is high, the system will automatically decrease the volume to the Start-up Limit value. It is done to avoid scaring the driver.
The minimum volume of In-call and Start-up limit is 6.
The volume of the current playing source will be temporarily muted when an incoming phone call is received.
Equalizer
Allows the selection of the speaker settings inside your car to optimize the listening experience by selecting predefined zones.
NOTE
Adjusting one of the five frequency levels after selecting a predefined sound profile will automatically switch the equalizer to custom mode.
Focus Zone
To enhance and optimize the listening experience, speaker settings can be selected by predefined zones.
NOTE
The default speaker position is Both zones.
User can touch Reset button to reset to factory value default without confirmation.
Display Settings
Use the Display Settings to adjust the following:
Brightness
Theme
Wallpaper
To access the Display Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  Display Settings   .
Brightness
The Brightness settings allow users to adjust the display brightness.
NOTE
Instrument Cluster option only displays when fitted.
Adaptive Mode automatically adjusts brightness based on ambient light.
Theme
The Theme settings allow users to select a display theme or enable automatic switching between light and dark themes.
NOTE
When Auto Theme is ON, the system automatically switches between light and dark themes based on day and night.
Wallpaper
The Wallpaper setting allows users to change the wallpaper.
NOTE
The default wallpaper is the first image in the list.
Security Settings
Use the Security Settings to customize functions of the following:
Valet Mode
Theft Alert
To access the Security Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  Security Settings   .
Geo-fence (if available)
Geo-fence creates a virtual geographic boundary around an area by means of GPS technology, the owner will receive a notification on the infotainment screen when the vehicle moves out of the geo-fence area.
Geo-fence settings can be viewed by all profiles except Valet. However, only the Primary profile can edit the Geo-fence settings.
This feature is helpful if somebody else is allowed to drive the vehicle and the owner wants to remind them that an agreed driving distance has been exceeded.
Set the Geo-fence limit using the VinFast app.
Exiting Geo-fence:
Upon exiting a Geo-fence, a notification will appear on the screen.
Time-fence (if available)
Time-fence is a time-period can be set beyond which if a vehicle is driven, a notification is sent by the Infotainment system.
Time-fence settings can be viewed by all profiles except Valet. However, only the Primary profile can edit the time-fence settings.
This feature is helpful if somebody else is allowed to drive the vehicle and the owner wishes to remind them that an agreed time-period has been exceeded.
Set the Time-fence limit using the VinFast app.
Moving beyond a Time-fence:
Upon moving beyond a Time-fence, a notification will appear on the Infotainment screen.
Valet Mode
Valet Mode is a preset driver profile that limits speed and restricts access to advanced features. For detailed information, see >   Infotainment Screen > Valet Mode  .
Theft Alert
Theft Alert is a vehicle security feature that helps protect the vehicle from unauthorized access or movement while it is shut down.
Anti-theft Alarm  – Provides an alert through light and horn signals if a potential theft is detected. This feature is automatically activated when the vehicle is shut down (Light / Horn / Both).
GPS Monitoring  – Periodically checks the vehicle’s location during shutdown and triggers a theft alert if the vehicle is moved. This feature will be deactivated on the next start.
Vehicle Settings
Use the Vehicle Settings to customize functions of the following:
Seat
Side Mirrors
Doors
Windows
Wipers
Wireless Charging (if equipped)
Extension (if available)
To access the Vehicle Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  Vehicle Settings   .
Seat
Easy Access  - When enabled, the driver seat moves to allow easy egress from the vehicle.
Child Presence Detection (CPD)  (if equipped) - Alerts if a child is left behind in the vehicle.
CPD Activation Delay  (if equipped) – Delays CPD activation for 10 minutes after locking.
Warning levels of Child Presence Detection
Level 1:
A warning will be triggered and displayed on the infotainment screen if a child is detected sitting in any seat of the vehicle, all doors are closed, and no adults are present in the vehicle. The warning indicates that there is a child in the vehicle and information about the current temperature in the cabin.
Level 2:
The system will continue to sound warning and send a notification via VinFast App to alert the driver. The HVAC system will automatically turn ON to make the child comfortable.
Level 3:
The system will trigger an eCall warning if the battery state of charge becomes critically low (<15%) and the climate control system is no longer able to maintain a safe cabin temperature
Side Mirrors
Auto Fold  - The side mirrors will fold automatically when the vehicle is locked.
Auto Tilt on Reverse  - The side mirrors will tilt down automatically when the vehicle is in Reverse (R).
Doors
Auto Unlock Doors  – Selects driver door or all doors to be unlocked when the vehicle is unlocked.
Door Unlock When Parked  – Enables automatic selected doors unlocking when the vehicle is in Park (P).
Walk-Away Lock  – Automatically locks the doors when the driver walks away from the vehicle with the key fob.
Speed Sensitive Door Lock (km/h)  – Automatically locks the doors when the vehicle reaches the set speed (Off / 10 / 15 / 20 / 25).
Lock/Unlock Feedback  – Select feedback type when vehicle is locked / unlocked (Off / Lights / Horn / Both).
Auto Close Sunroof (if equipped)  – Selects which sunroof components close automatically when rain is detected (Off / Glass / Glass & Shade).
Windows
Window Close on Lock  - Automatically closes all windows when the vehicle is locked.
Wipers
Auto Rear Wiper  - Automatically activates the rear wiper when the vehicle is in Reverse (R).
Wiper Service Mode - Sets the windshield wipers to the service position for easy blade replacement or manual windshield cleaning.. This feature is only available if the brake is not pressed to start after unlocking the vehicle.
Wireless Charging (if equipped)
Wireless Charging  - Enable/Disable the wireless charging pad.
Extension (if available)
Favorite Button Customization  – Customizes the favorite button on the left steering wheel with preferred functions for a quick press or a press and hold.
Right Stalk Tip Customization  – Customizes the tip of the right stalk to quickly control a preferred function with a rotation.
NOTE
Functions are available only if fitted.
Light Settings
Use the Light Settings to customize functions of the following:
Interior
Exterior
To access the Light Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  Light Settings   .
Interior
Dome Light  – Controls the dome light (Off / On / Auto).
Switches Brightness  (if available) – Adjusts the brightness of the switches.
Exterior
Welcome Light  – Automatically illuminates the exterior lights for a short time when you unlock the vehicle or approach with the key fob (if available).
Follow Me Home  – After you exit the vehicle, the exterior lights remain on for a set amount of time and then turn off (Off / 30s / 60s / 90s / 120s).
General Settings
Use General Settings to manage the following:
Region
Language
Date & Time
Unit
To access the General Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  General Settings   .
Region
Use Region settings to select the region manually, or enable  Auto Region Change  for automatic updates.
Language
Select the language displayed on the infotainment screen.
Date & Time
Auto Date/Time
Toggle the Auto Date/Time feature
Current Date/Time
Current Date and Time (manually editable if Auto Date/Time is OFF)
Auto Time Zone
Toggle the Auto Time Zone feature
Time Zone
Current Time Zone (manually editable if Auto Time Zone is OFF)
Time Format
Select preferred Time Format - 12h/24h
Date Format
Select preferred Date Format from the drop - down list
Unit
This page enables you to adjust the following:
Distance Unit - km / mi
Temperature Unit - °C / °F
Tire Pressure Unit - Bar / psi / kPa
Battery Level Display - Distance / Percentage
Energy Consumption - kWh/100km / km/kWh / kWh/100mi / mi/kWh
About
About page displays the following information:
Vehicle
Software
eSIM
To access About page:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  About   .
Vehicle
The Vehicle page displays vehicle information including:
Model
MHU software version
Odometer (ODO)
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN)
Extended warranty date
Next service due date
Vehicle name
To change the Vehicle Name:
Tap  Edit    icon.
Enter preferred vehicle name in the text field.
Tap  Change .
NOTE
Maximum 15 characters are allowed for the vehicle name.
Software
Software updates are necessary to keep the software updated. The vehicle software can be updated directly without visiting a VinFast Service ﻿Center.
The software update can be downloaded either via Wi-Fi or Cellular network data.
Software update download
Software updates can be downloaded automatically or manually. Downloads continue in the background and resume if interrupted.
Automatic download : The vehicle will automatically download updates over Wi-Fi when connected to a Wi-Fi network.
Download over cellular data : The vehicle will switch to cellular data to download updates if Wi-Fi is not available.
CAUTION
Software updates may contain new safety, security or general vehicle feature improvements that can enhance the overall vehicle operation.
NOTE
Downloading and installing a software update may take some time.
eSIM
The eSIM page provides information related to the current status of Infotainment systems cellular connection. Depending on the market, a QR code may be available to easily facilitate the purchase of additional data.
The following information may be available:
Signal
MNO (Mobile Network Operator)
Remaining Voice Packages (Talk Time) (VN only)
Free Package (Data) (VN only)
Top up Package (VN only)
ICCID (Integrated Circuit Card Identifier)
IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity)
EID (Embedded Identity Document)
B2B Package (Row market only)
B2C Package (Row market only)
QR Code (VN only)
Reset LTE/4G Button
To reset the network access device:
Tap on the  Reset   LTE/4G  button.
To purchase additional data (VN only):
Scan the QR code shown on the screen.
Open the LTE data purchasing page via your mobile, follow the instructions on the screen.
After data is purchased, details will be updated on the eSIM page.
Storage Management (if available)
Use the Storage Management to monitor and manually free up storage space used by third-party apps.
To access the Storage Management:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  Storage Management   .
To sort apps:
Tap  Size  or  Name  at the top-right corner of the app list to sort the apps.
To uninstall a third-party app:
Tap  Uninstall  next to the app in the list.
Or, Tap  Uninstall  at the top-right corner of the app’s details page.
Tap  Uninstall  in the confirmation pop-up.
To clear all cache/data:
Tap  Clear all cache  or  Clear all data .
Tap  Clear  in the confirmation pop-up.
To clear data for a single app:
Tap the app name.
Tap  Clear data .
Tap  Clear  at the confirmation pop-up.
To clear cache for a single app:
Tap the app name.
Tap  Clear cache .
NOTE
Uninstalling apps and clearing cache/data are not allowed while driving.

# Battery & Charging


## High Voltage Components

High Voltage Components Overview
Power Distribution Unit, On Board Charging, DC-DC Converter
Charge Port
HV Battery
HV Heater (PTC)
HV Wiring
Electric Drive System (EDS)
HV Compressor
WARNING
Avoid contact with any high voltage components even when the battery is low or discharged as this can lead to fire, electric shock which can cause serious injury or death.
In case of an unlikely event of vehicle fire, contact local emergency responders, immediately.
Do not try to remove or replace any high voltage components, cables or connectors as the high voltage system has no user serviceable parts.
NOTE
For ease of identification, high voltage cables and wiring will have an Orange/Red colour covering together with information labels.
Read and follow all instructions on the labels that are attached to the vehicle. These are provided for your safety.

## Charging Instructions

Charging Equipment
The vehicle can be charged via a number of different charging devices. These include Portable Charger, Charging Stations, Super-Fast DC Charging Stations, and Home Chargers. The charging devices must have the correct charging adapter to plug into the vehicle.
Charge Plug
The vehicle is equipped with CCS2 (Common Charging System) connection. The available CCS2 connections are:
Portable charger (If equipped)
Portable charger provide slow charging for vehicles by converting AC electricity into DC electricity.
The portable charger controller comes with a charging indicator light. Please refer to the label on the back of the portable charger or the user guide provided with the portable charger for reference.
To use portable charger:
Park the vehicle correctly in a location that is convenient for charging.
Plug the portable charger into the power supply socket.
Open the charging port cover.
Remove the sealing cover of the charging port   and insert the portable charger   correctly into the charging port.
The vehicle will start charging, and charging information will be displayed on the infotainment screen.
If you need to stop charging midway, you can unlock the portable charger by clicking the“ Stop charging ” icon on the infotainment screen. Pull the portable charger out of the charging port, install the sealing cover of the charging port, and close the charging port cover.
NOTE
If the charging gun cannot be unlocked after clicking the button “Stop charging”, you can unlock the portable charger through emergency unlocking. See >   Charging Instructions > Charging Instructions  .
Remove the portable charger from the power socket and store it properly.
WARNING
Do not use power sockets that are significantly worn or damaged.
When charging, do not unplug the charging cable from the power socket.
Please charge in a relatively safe environment, avoid rain, water immersion, and keep away from sources of fire.
Do not allow children to engage in charging work.
After charging, do not disconnect the charging connection device when your hands are wet or standing in water on the ground.
NOTE
The portable charger will not work without a ground connection. The wall socket requires a ground pin to connect to the portable charger. This is required to safely ground the charging system and avoid short circuits.
For all indication light descriptions, refer to the label at the back of the portable charger or the user guide provided with portable charger.
Charging Stations
The vehicle can be charged at public charging stations. Charging stations may provide either AC or DC charging at various charging rates. Due to the variability between charging stations, it is critical to familiarize yourself with the operating instructions of each charging station correctly to prevent possible damage to the vehicle and to ensure safety.
Charge Station Identification
To ensure you charge your vehicle with compatible equipment, the charger-plug label displays a charge-type identifier (AC/DC) as illustrated below:
Charge Connector Type
Charge Type Identifier
A/C Charging
(Type 2)
DC Charging
(CCS2)
OR
WARNING
Failure to use a suitable charge station may lead to damage to the vehicles high voltage battery or charging system.
NOTE
The use of Super-Fast Charging Stations should be minimized to ensure the optimal lifetime performance of the battery.
Home Charger (If equipped)
A home charger can be installed at home or office to provide convenient charging. Typically, these will charge the vehicle quicker than the portable charger.
Home chargers need to be hard wired to the power supply in the home. Please contact a licensed electrician for installation.
Please contact a VinFast dealership for information on suitable VinFast - wall mounted home chargers.
Important Safety Warnings regarding Charging
WARNING
Contact with a high voltage power source can lead to serious injury or death.
Do not touch the contacts on the charging equipment or in the charging port of the vehicle.
Never use damaged, faulty or modified charging equipment.
Never use an extension cord, adapter or power board with charging equipment.
Protect the charging socket and contacts from water or moisture and other liquids.
The charger can generate electromagnetic waves that can affect medical devices such as an implantable cardiac pacemaker.
Always confirm with the medical team and manufacturer whether charging the electric vehicle will impact the operation of the medical devices such as a cardiac pacemaker.
There should be no water or dust in the charging handle connector and plug. Always make sure they are clean before connecting to the charger and charging inlet. Failure to do so may cause electric shock when connecting the charging handle or even lead to a fire.
Be careful not to touch or insert anything in the charging outlet holes, charging port holes, and the charging handle holes when connecting the charging handle to the charging port in the vehicle.
Immediately stop charging if abnormal symptoms are detected such as odor or smoke.
If the charge cable outer conduit is damaged then immediately replace the charging cable to prevent electrical shock.
Charging Instructions
Electric vehicles operate using electrical energy stored in a high-voltage battery. The high-voltage battery can be charged using any of the following methods:
Level I:  Charging from a grounded household power outlet using a portable charger. The actual charging efficiency may vary from the specifications listed on the charger label.
Level II:  Charging at AC charging stations, which allow users to charge faster compared to Level I charging.
Level III:  Charging at stations that use direct current (DC) power. DC fast chargers deliver higher current, enabling significantly faster charging compared to household outlets or Level II chargers.
WARNING
Chargers generate electromagnetic waves that can seriously affect medical electrical devices, such as implantable cardiac pacemakers. Consult your medical professional or pacemaker manufacturer to ensure that the charging of your electric vehicle will not impact the operation of your medical electrical devices.
Do not forcefully pull the charging handle from the charge port. It could result in dangerous electrical arcs, causing serious injury or death. Always follow the charging shut down process of the charging device and vehicle.
NOTE
Time required to charge the vehicle depends on the ambient and battery temperature, the power level of the charger, the charge level of the battery, and the charger type.
The speed of DC Charging Stations may be reduced in some circumstances, particularly when the ambient temperature is high. Hence charging can take more time.
To charge the vehicle follow the process below and the instructions of the charging device:
Stop the vehicle completely, put the vehicle into Park (P).
Check if the charging device is compatible with the vehicle.
Plug the portable charger into the power supply socket. (With portable charger).
Open the charge port door.
Fully insert the charging handle into the charge port, ensuring it is connected correctly.
Start the charging process at the charging device.
The charging handle will be automatically locked in the charge port during charging.
Observe the charging status on the vehicle Infotainment screen, and the charging device.
To stop charging, unlock the vehicle (if locked) and follow the instructions on the charging device and on the vehicle Infotainment screen.
The locking pin in the charge port will automatically disengage once charging has stopped. This may take some time after charging has been requested to stop.
Remove the charging handle from the charge port and return it to the charging device.
Close the charge port door.
NOTE When the vehicle is fully charged to 100% or reaches the target charger setting, the system will automatically stop charging.
Charge Port
The charging port door is located on the front right side of the vehicle. Open the charging port door to access the charging port.
To Open the Charge Port Door:
To open the charge port door, put the vehicle in Park (P), and unlock the charge port door by.
Press the charging port cover in the above shown location to open it.
WARNING
Do not touch the port while charging the vehicle.
NOTE
Due to freezing weather, it might be difficult to open the charge port door. Tap lightly on the door or remove any ice prior to attempting to open. Do not open the charge port door forcefully.
To plug in a charging handle
To charge the vehicle, firmly hold the charging handle (also known as the charging gun) and push it straight into the vehicle’s charging port. Make sure the connector is fully inserted and aligned evenly with the port. Improper connection may cause errors.
If you are using a mobile charger, connect it to the power source first before plugging it into the vehicle.
After plugging in the charging handle:
The system will start to authenticate the charging station. The same will also display on the Infotainment screen.
After a successful authentication, the vehicle will start charging.
WARNING
Ensure that there is no water, dust, dirt or debris in the charging handle connector and plug. Connecting while there is water, dust, dirt or debris in the charging handle and plug may cause a fire or an electric shock.
Be careful not to touch or insert anything in the charging outlet holes, charge port holes, and the charging handle holes when connecting to the Charge Port in the vehicle.
Immediately stop charging, if abnormal symptoms are detected such as an odor or smoke.
If the cable coating is damaged then immediately replace the charging cable to prevent electrical shock.
CAUTION
Make sure the charging connector and charging plug are always clean and dry. Keep the charging cable away from moisture or water.
NOTE If the battery temperature is high, there may be a slight delay before a charging session begins to allow the battery to cool down.
The charging will not start if the charging handle is not fully inserted and the locking pin is not engaged.
Refer to the Charging Faults section below for more information.
Charge port light status
The current charging status of the vehicle can be determined through the charging indicator light  .
The charging indicator light has the following states:
Charging in progress: Green light flashing.
Charging fault: Red light is always on.
Charging completed: Green light always on.
Standby/Not Connected: The indicator light is off.
Vehicle Charging Status
The following types of charging status will be shown on the Infotainment screen after plugging in the charger:
Remaining time   : The estimated time remaining to charge to the chosen set limit.
Current Battery SOC
Current Expected range
Battery temperature
Charge cable status   .
Battery charging status view   .
Stop charging   : To stop charging.
To stop charging from the Infotainment screen:
Tap  Stop charging   .
Confirm by tapping  Stop  button.
Wait a few seconds, the charging handle can be detached from charge port.
Charging will be stopped.
WARNING
Hold the charging handle and not the cable when connecting or removing the charging handle. Pulling the cable itself (without using the handle) may cause the internal wires to break, crack or get disconnected. This may cause electrical shock or fire.
During the charging process, the vehicle will automatically lock the charging handle. Do not use excessive force to pull out a locked charging handle, as this may cause serious injury, death or damage to the vehicle.
NOTE
Air conditioning performance may reduce in some circumstances during charging, particularly during high ambient temperature and high charging current. This is normal to ensure the battery cooling is optimized to maintain battery longevity.
Manual Release of the Charging handle:
The charging handle is automatically locked in the charge port by a locking pin to prevent accidental or ﻿unauthorized disconnection. If the usual method for releasing the charging handle from the charge port (using the Stop charging button) does not work, carefully follow the steps detailed below:
Ensure that the vehicle has stopped charging by checking the charging screen on the Infotainment screen.
Disconnect the power source (for charging stations, you may use the emergency stop button if available).
Turn the vehicle OFF and remove the key from the vehicle.
Open the front compartment.
Locate the charge port’s release cable   by removing the cover plate.
Use a tool (for example a screwdriver, hook, pliers) to pull the charge port’s release cable to release the pin that locks the charging handle.
Pull the charging handle from the charge port.
WARNING
To ensure safety when disconnecting the charging. Do not immediately pull the emergency release cable while the charging station is still powered - this may cause electric shock or arcing/fire. In such cases, it is recommended to press the emergency stop button on the charging station first before attempting to release charging handle.
NOTE
Use an appropriate tool to pull the release cable.
To close the Charge Port Door:
Close the charge port door and press in the location shown above to lock it.
CAUTION
Ensure the charging handle and cable are put away correctly, so that they do not cause a tripping hazard, or get caught in or damaged by the vehicle.
Do not drop the charging connector (charging handle). The charging connector can be damaged.
Do not attempt to remove the charging handle or the portable charger from the wall while the vehicle is charging. Doing so may damage the outlet and the cable.
Charging Faults
Charging Authentication Fault
An authentication fault may occur after connecting the charging handle to the vehicle. An authentication fault may occur when:
The charge station is not compatible with the vehicle.
The charging handle or charge station is damaged or not ready to charge.
If an authentication fault occurs, a message will be displayed on the Infotainment screen. Disconnecting and reconnecting the charging handle or using an alternate charger may correct the authentication issue. Follow all messages shown on the Infotainment screen.
If charging does not commence once the charging handle is connected to the vehicle, please try switching to other charging station, if the issue persists, follow the below process:
Remove the charging handle from the charge port
Close the charge port door
Ensure the vehicle is OFF
Lock the vehicle
Wait for 5 minutes for the vehicle to enter Sleep mode
Unlock the vehicle
Open the charge port door
Reconnect the charging handle
Check Charging Status
If the issue persists, contact the nearest VinFast Service Center.
Charging handle Fails to Release
If you are unable to remove the charging handle from the charging port after charging, the locking latch may not have released from the handle. Manually release the latch to unlock the charging handle.

## Battery Information

Battery Information
The vehicle is equipped with a High Voltage (HV) battery located beneath the floor and a 12V Low Voltage (LV) battery positioned under the hood/in the front compartment. If the 12V battery or HV battery needs to be inspected, please contact the nearest VinFast Service Center.
Ensuring the battery systems are in good condition helps maintain optimal vehicle performance.
CAUTION
Please charge the vehicle immediately if the high voltage battery state of charge is less than 5% (A notification will be displayed on the screen). The battery warning threshold can be adjusted through the Infortamaint screen, see >   EV Battery App  .
Avoid discharging the battery to 0% as this may cause the battery health to degrade more quickly.
NOTE
The vehicle uses energy from the High voltage battery to recharge the 12V battery.
The actual driving range may vary depending on operating conditions, including but not limited to driving behavior, vehicle load, traffic conditions, road conditions, weather, and battery condition.
EV Battery App
The EV Battery App shows detailed information about the Vehicle’s High Voltage Battery and Charging System.
To access the EV Battery App:
Tap  App Library    >  EV App   .
OR, Tap  Battery  in the Driver View Area, if available.
Charging Status
Charging status is shown on the EV Battery App as shown below.
Remaining time
Current Battery SOC
Current expected range
Battery temperature
Charge cable status
Battery charging status view
Stop charging
Charging Settings
To access Charging Settings:
Tap  App Library    >  EV App   .
OR, Tap  Battery  in the Driver View Area.
Tap  Settings   .
Settings below may be available:
Charging Target
Charge Current Limit
Battery Level Reminder
Charging Schedule (if available)
Charging Target
Charging Target is the maximum state of charge (%) the EV battery is allowed to reach before the charger automatically turns OFF.
To set the Charging Target:
Tap  App Library    >  EV App   .
OR
Tap  Battery  in the Driver View Area.
Tap  Settings   .
Press and slide the slider left/right to set desired charging target.
NOTE
If users adjust Charging Target smaller than current SOC, then charging will complete.
Charge Current Limit
Adjust the maximum current when charging with an AC charging station. This setting is only available when charging is in process and will be saved by location.
To set the Charge Current Limit:
Tap  App Library    >  EV App   .
OR, Tap  Battery  in the Driver View Area.
Tap  Settings   .
Scroll to  Charge Current Limit  and adjust the setting by tapping + / - on the Infotainment screen.
Battery Level Reminder
Battery Level Reminder provides a notification on the infotainment screen, once the battery state of charge reaches the set level. The default value for this setting is 20%.
To adjust the Battery Reminder:
Tap  App Library    >  EV App   .
Or, Tap  Battery  in the Driver View Area .
Tap  Settings   .
Scroll to  Battery Level Reminder .
Toggle this feature ON/OFF and use the slider to adjust the warning threshold.
Once reached, a notification will be provided on the Infotainment screen along with an option to find a charging station.
AC Charging Schedule (if available)
Using Charging Schedule to set a specific time for your vehicle to start and stop charging at an AC charging station.
To adjust the Charging Schedule:
Tap  App Library    >  EV App   .
Or, Tap  Battery  in the Driver View Area .
Tap  Settings   .
Scroll to  Charging Schedule .
Toggle this feature ON and Tap  Edit    icon.
Tap the time picker to adjust the start time and end time.
Tap  Save .
Battery Care
The high voltage battery requires periodic inspection as per the VinFast checklist. Always pay attention to the battery status and never allow it to fully discharge. Even when the vehicle is not being driven, the battery discharges very slowly to power the on board electronics. The discharge rate may vary depending on environmental factors (such as cold weather), configuration, and selected settings.
If the battery is not used for an extended period (2–3 weeks), always maintain the state of charge above 30% (preferable between 30% to 60%).
If the high voltage battery needs to be inspected, tested, or replaced, it should only be done by a trained technician. If the 12-volt or high voltage battery needs to be serviced, contact your nearest VinFast Service Center.
Factors Contributing to High Battery Consumption:
Driving at higher speeds.
Extremes in temperature and strong winds.
Adjusting cabin temperature through heating or cooling.
Driving a steep incline.
Frequent starts and stops, typically in heavy traffic jam conditions.
Carrying heavy loads.
Driving with opened windows.
Improper care of wheels and tires.
Additional accessories or modifications that impact aerodynamics.
Operational factors that may affect battery lifespan
During vehicle operation, certain driving habits may subject the high-voltage battery to elevated temperatures and high electrical loads for extended periods, which may affect battery life and performance.
Frequent sudden acceleration
Repeated hard acceleration or aggressive throttle input can cause the battery to deliver high current over a short period, increasing battery temperature and stress on the battery cells.
Recommendation: Accelerate gradually and drive smoothly to help maintain stable battery operation and extend battery life.
Parking in High-Temperature Environments for Extended Periods
High ambient temperatures, especially when the vehicle is parked under direct sunlight for extended periods, can increase battery temperature and accelerate battery aging
Recommendation: Whenever possible, park the vehicle in a shaded, well-ventilated area to help protect the battery.
Operating the Vehicle with the Battery at High Temperature for Extended Periods
Continuous operation at elevated battery temperatures can accelerate side reactions inside the battery cells, reducing battery lifespan.
Recommendation: Reduce aggressive acceleration, drive gently, and allow sufficient time for the battery to cool down when necessary.
WARNING
Maintain a safe distance from the vehicle in case of damage to the high voltage battery or other high voltage components as there is a high risk of electric shock, overheating, or fire. Failure to comply may cause serious injuries or death.
If the vehicle is damaged from flood, crash, fire, or other event, it should be inspected by an ﻿authorized service technician as soon as possible. The vehicle should be kept outside until it has been inspected at a distance of at least 15m (50ft) from any structure or anything that can burn. Open a window or door of the vehicle to allow air to circulate inside.
CAUTION
It is recommended to charge the battery when the State of Charge (SOC) drops below 20%, and to charge it immediately when the SOC falls below 5%. Do not allow the high-voltage battery to become fully depleted (0%), as this may reduce battery life and performance.
Storing the vehicle for more than 6 months without carrying out necessary maintenance may permanently damage the HV battery.
Do not store or park the vehicle near heat source due to risk of catching fire, which can damage the battery and vehicle.
Do not store the vehicle in area which may flood as flood may damage the battery and the vehicle.
NOTE
The High Voltage battery SOC shall always be more than 30% for storage (preferable between 30% to 60%). If you plan to store the vehicle for 3~6 months, battery maintenance is recommended.
For optimal life and performance of the battery, minimize the use of super-fast DC charging.
For optimal battery life, avoid charging it to 100% SOC on a regular basis; set the charging limit to 80-90%, and only charge to full manually when necessary.
If the vehicle is damaged from flood, crash, fire, or any other event, it may be necessary to have the vehicle inspected, and the battery may need to be replaced. If the battery is involved in a fire, it may need to be replaced and returned to manufacturer for investigation.
If the vehicle is unresponsive and does not unlock, open, or charge, the 12V battery may be discharged. In this situation, try jump starting the 12V battery. If the vehicle is still unresponsive, contact VinFast Service Center.
Charge the battery fully (100%) once a month for optimal performance. For any concerns, please contact a VinFast Service Center.
Temperature Limits
Avoid exposing the vehicle to ambient temperatures above 55°C (131°F) or below -30°C (-22°F). Ideally, store the vehicle in a climate controlled garage if extreme ambient temperatures are expected. Failure to follow this temperature recommendation may permanently degrade battery performance.
Low Power Consumption Mode
To protect against complete High Voltage battery discharge, the vehicle enters a low power consumption mode when the charge level is very low. In this mode, the HV battery stops supporting the on-board electronics to slow the discharge rate. Once this low power consumption mode is active, it is important to charge the vehicle as soon as possible to avoid possible battery damage.
When the low-power consumption mode is active, the 12V battery is no longer charged and can completely discharge. If this occurs, the 12V battery will need to be charged or replaced before commencing any High Voltage charging of the vehicle. To conserve energy, select the ECO driving mode from Driver View Area.
To select ECO driving mode:
Adjusting ECO driving mode, see >   Drive Systems > Drive Modes  .
CAUTION
Do not allow the High Voltage battery to discharge completely. There is a possibility that the High Voltage battery will no longer charge if left discharged for long periods of time.

# Maintenance


## General Information

Vehicle Care Overview
To ensure a trouble-free experience with the vehicle, regular maintenance should be carried out as stipulated in the Owner’s Manual. If any abnormal sounds or vibrations are observed, visit the nearest VinFast Service ﻿Center to have the vehicle inspected. Regular maintenance and servicing are recommended to prevent operational problems with the vehicle.
CAUTION
All service procedures must be carried out by an authorized VinFast technician.

## Fluids, Lubricants and Parts

Cabin Air Filter
The air conditioner cabin filter prevents dust, pollen, and other pollutants from entering the vehicle. ﻿To achieve the best filtering effects, replace the cabin filter within the specified maintenance interval specified by VinFast.
The cabin air filter should be replaced according to the Maintenance Schedule. If the vehicle is operated in severely air polluted or dusty conditions, inspect and replace the cabin air filter more frequently.
NOTE
Filter life depends on atmospheric conditions.
Filter Replacement
To remove the Cabin Air filter:
The installation position of the air filter is located under the glove box.
Open the glove box and carefully push in the side clips   to disengage the glove box.
Disconnect the damper   on the right side of the glove box.
Remove the glove box mounting frame bottom cover   by pressing and releasing the retaining tab on the right side.
Remove the air filter cover   by pressing and releasing the retaining tabs on the right side.
Remove the air filter   by pulling it out.
To install the Cabin Air filter:
To install a new air filter, reassemble in the reverse order of removal process.
Coolant
The vehicles cooling system contains coolant fluid to maintain optimum operating temperature for certain components in the vehicle.
To ensure efficient cooling is maintained, it is recommended that the cooling system is periodically inspected for coolant leakage and/or damage.
To perform the inspection, the vehicle should be parked on level ground and the coolant and cooling system must be allowed to cool down.
Use only approved coolant fluid for electric vehicles. Adding other types of water or antifreeze may damage the vehicle.
Coolant replacement should be carried out by a qualified VinFast technician.
For recommended coolant, see >   Technical Specifications > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts Overview  .
To top-up the coolant:
Park the vehicle on level surface. Turn OFF the vehicle. Allow the front compartment components to completely cool off.
Open and secure the hood.
Remove the front trunk.
Locate the coolant reservoirs.
Slowly unfasten the filler cap   by turning it in an anti-clockwise direction, if a “hiss” sound is audible, stop turning the filler cap   and wait until the sound stops and then proceed to remove it.
Refill the coolant reservoir using Anti-Freeze Pre-Mixed Coolant AF2100 (ASTM D3306) 50% glycol and 50% water mixture.
The coolant level should be between the  MIN  and  MAX  indicator marks as shown on the side of the reservoir.
Tighten the filler cap   by turning it in a clockwise direction.
WARNING
Do not open the coolant reservoir cap when the vehicle is ON or when the cooling system is still hot. Let the cooling system completely cool before removing the cap. Remove the coolant reservoir cap slowly and cover it with a thick cloth to prevent scalding. Failure to following these instructions may result in a serious injury.
Coolant is extremely toxic and can be fatal if swallowed. Keep coolant bottles sealed and out of reach of children. If a child has accidentally ingested the coolant, seek immediate medical attention.
Handle the coolant carefully and avoid contact with skin and eyes. In case, the coolant comes in/into contact with skin or eyes, rinse with plenty of water immediately.
Be careful when changing coolant, as there are High Voltage components in this area.
Do not touch heater, radiator, A/C pipes or hoses. They may be very hot and may cause severe burns.
Do not run the vehicle if there is a leak in the coolant reservoir, all coolant could leak out causing a fire or leading to severe burns. Any leaks must be fixed by an ﻿authorized VinFast Service Center before driving the vehicle.
Keep hands, clothing, and tools away from the rotating fan of the radiator to avoid injury.
CAUTION
Keep coolant in a sealed container in a safe place.
Do not fill the coolant reservoir with excess coolant. Coolant left on a metallic surface for extended periods of time may cause rusting.
NOTE
Ensure the cap and reservoir are clean and free from debris before opening the coolant reservoir to prevent any foreign particles from entering the reservoir.
Open both coolant tank cap and top-up both tanks to maintain recommended coolant level
Washer Fluid
Washer Fluid is used for cleaning the windshield with the operation of the windshield wipers. The washer fluid reservoir is located under the hood of the vehicle. Check the washer fluid level regularly and add fluid if required.
To Top-up the Washer Fluid﻿:
Locate the washer fluid reservoir by removing the cover plate  .
Pull open the washer fluid cap.
Add washer fluid to reservoir until the reservoir is full.
Refit the cap to close the washer fluid reservoir, ensuring it is tightly fitted.
WARNING
Do not touch any high voltage components near washer fluid reservoir area.
Washer fluid can irritate eyes and skin. Read and follow the instructions provided by the washer fluid manufacturer.
In cold climates where water can freeze, use a washer fluid with anti-freeze agent. In colder regions, using a washer fluid without an anti-freeze agent can impair visibility through the windshield.
Washer fluid is toxic and can be injurious if swallowed. Keep washer fluid bottles sealed and out of reach of children. If a child has accidentally ingested the washer fluid, seek immediate medical attention.
Keep washer fluid away from children and animals.
CAUTION
Make sure to use windshield washer fluid specifically designed for automobiles. Using other substances, such as untreated water, may cause damage to the vehicle.
Add washer fluid carefully, do not let it splash on to the exterior surface of the vehicle.
Do not turn the wiper ON without using water or washer fluid as it may scratch or damage the windshield when dry.
The concentration of anti-freeze agent in the washer fluid must be adjusted to the vehicle operating conditions and the climate. A high concentration may lead to vehicle damage.
Do not mix water with ready-to-use washer fluid. Water can cause the solution to freeze and damage the washer fluid tank and other parts of the washer system.
Fill the washer fluid reservoir only three-quarters full when it is very cold. This allows for fluid expansion if freezing occurs, which could damage the reservoir if it is completely full.
NOTE
When using concentrated washer fluid, follow the manufacturer instructions for adding water.
Wiper Blades
Windshield Wiper Blades should be regularly inspected for wear or cracking. Contamination of either the windshield or the wiper blades with foreign matter can reduce the effectiveness of the windshield wipers.
Common sources of contamination are:
Insects
Tree sap
If the wiper blades are not wiping/cleaning the windshield properly, clean both the windshield and the wiper blades with a mild detergent, and rinse thoroughly with clean water.
Wiper blades will degrade over time and eventually require replacement. If water is not sufficiently cleared from the windshield and blades squeak when in operation, wiper blade replacement may be required.
Front Wiper Blade Replacement
The vehicle needs to be in ACC power mode.
Wipers need to be in home position, wiper stalk in OFF position.
Set Wiper Service Mode to ON, see >   Settings >Vehicle Settings  .
Lift the wiper arm away from the windshield.
Press and hold the locking to release the wiper blade as shown in the illustration, pull the wiper blade in the direction of the arrow to remove it from the wiper arm assembly.
Slide the new wiper blade on the wiper arm in the direction shown until it clicks into place on the wiper arm.
Place the wiper assembly back on the windshield and check that the wiper blade is properly attached to the wiper arm.
Turn Wiper Service mode OFF from the Infotainment screen to return the Wiper back to the home position.
Rear Wiper Blade Replacement
The vehicle needs to be in ACC power mode.
Wipers need to be in home position, wiper stalk in OFF position.
Set Wiper Service Mode to ON, see >   Settings >Vehicle Settings  .
Lift the wiper arm away from the rear window. Remove the old wiper blade.
Install the new wiper blade.
Place the wiper assembly back on the windshield and check that the wiper is properly attached to the wiper arm.
Turn Wiper Service mode OFF from the Infotainment screen to return the Wiper back to the home position.
CAUTION
Wiper blades cannot be locked into a lifted position. Do not lift a wiper arm beyond its intended position as it can cause damage to wiper arm.
Do not use or allow wiper arms to touch the windshield without installing wiper blades. This can damage the windshield. Such damage would not be covered by the vehicle warranty.
NOTE
Non genuine products should not be used. Using non genuine wiper blades may damage the wiper system and windshield.
Brake Pads & Fluids
Brake pads & brake fluid are important components of the vehicle’s braking system. To ensure effective braking performance it is important to regularly inspect the brake pads for excessive wear and check the brake fluid level.
Brake Pads
Brake pad wear is affected by various vehicle operating conditions and increased pad wear may occur if the vehicle is driven in an aggressive manner with frequent and heavy breaking.
The brake pad is equipped with brake pad wear indicators. The wear indicator is a thin metal strip attached to the brake pad that produces a squealing sound when it makes contact with the disc brake, indicating that the brake pad material has reached the end of its effective service life.
Please contact your nearest VinFast Service Center to have the vehicle’s braking system inspected if you are facing difficulties with stopping the vehicle effectively.
WARNING
Do not neglect to service the vehicle braking system as it may result in reduced brake system performance, increasing the stopping distance which may lead to an accident.
Do not drive with worn-out brake pads. Damage to the braking system can result in a braking hazard.
The braking effect may get reduced if the brake pads become wet after heavy rainfall or immediately after washing the vehicle. This might require pressing the brake pedal with more force to compensate.
In high-salinity environments, a salt layer on the brake pads may affect the braking performance of the vehicle.
Overheated brakes reduce the braking effect and considerably increase the braking distance.
NOTE
Always replace brake pads as a set, either both front or both rear sets.
To avoid costly brake repairs, do not continue to drive with worn-out brake pads.
Brake Fluid
Brake fluid is a type of hydraulic fluid used in hydraulic brake systems to transfer force into pressure.
The brake fluid level in the reservoir should be checked regularly. Brake fluid may absorb some amount of moisture from the atmosphere over time. The hydraulic braking system may get damaged if there is too much moisture in the braking fluid.
To Check the Brake Fluid:
Ensure the vehicle is parked on a flat surface.
Let the braking system cool down.
Open and secure the hood.
Locate the brake fluid reservoir by removing the cover plate  .
The fluid level should be between the MIN and MAX indicator marks as shown on the side of the reservoir.
There are two reasons why the brake fluid level in the reservoir may go down:
Brake pads normal wear. When new pads are installed, the fluid level goes back up.
Fluid leak in the hydraulic brake system. Have the hydraulic brake system fixed. With a leak, the brakes will not work well.
Always clean the brake fluid reservoir cap and the area around the cap before removing and installing the cap.
Check the brake fluid level regularly and keep it near the MAX level. Do not let the fluid level get close to the MIN level, as this may cause a low brake fluid warning to appear in some driving conditions, such as driving on steep roads or making sharp turns for a long time. If the brake fluid level drops unusually or the low brake fluid warning comes on, have the vehicle checked at a VinFast Service Center as soon as possible.
CAUTION
Do not mix other types of brake fluid, otherwise it will cause damage to the braking system and components.
NOTE
The brake fluid used in this vehicle is DOT 4.
The red brake indicator   on the information entertainment screen will illuminate if the brake fluid in the reservoir drops below the recommended level. The ABS indicator   may also illuminate. Please contact your nearest VinFast Service Center immediately to have the vehicle’s braking system inspected.
WARNING
The brake fluid level must be between MIN and MAX level. Brake fluid may leak out over the edge of the reservoir if the brake fluid level is above the MAX indicator and may result in damage to the vehicle.
If the brake light illuminates while driving, stop as soon as safely possible and check the brake fluid level. If left unchecked, this may prevent effective braking and cause increased movement in the brake pedal and/or complete brake failure.
Brake fluid is highly toxic. Keep brake fluid container sealed and out of reach of children. Seek immediate medical attention if accidentally exposed to any brake fluid.
Prevent brake fluid from making contact with skin and eyes. If contact is made, rinse immediately with water. If redness, pain, or discomfort persists, seek immediate medical attention.
Do not touch any of the High Voltage components in the brake fluid reservoir area.
Do not use ﻿unauthorized products. Usage of incorrect or contaminated brake fluid could result in damaging the braking system. This could result in the loss of braking, leading to an accident.
CAUTION
Use brake fluid only from a sealed airtight container. Do not use previously used fluid or fluid from an opened container, as brake fluid has a tendency to absorb moisture which decreases braking performance.
Do not allow any brake fluid to come into contact with the vehicle paint to avoid corrosion.
Contact VinFast Service Center﻿ immediately if any increased movement of the brake pedal or a significant loss of brake fluid is observed. Driving under these conditions can result in extended stopping distances or complete brake failure.
NOTE
The brake fluid level drops slightly during vehicle operation and as the brake pads wear.
Air Conditioner
To ensure continuous and efficient operation of the air conditioning system, a few minutes of cooling must be regularly performed once a month, regardless of the weather conditions and time of the year.
The air conditioning system in the vehicle is filled with R134a﻿ refrigerant. The technical details of the air conditioning refrigerant can be found on the label inside the hood of the vehicle.﻿ See >   Fluids, Lubricants and Parts > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts Overview  .
WARNING
Air conditioning systems contain high-pressured refrigerants. Do not open the air conditioner refrigerant system as it may result in serious injuries.
Air conditioning refrigerant systems should only be serviced by an authorized service technician.
NOTE
Always use manufacturer ﻿authorized refrigerant and air-conditioning compressor oil.
In humid climates, the air conditioning may create water droplets inside the vehicle. It is recommended to use the air conditioner with the windows closed.
Electric vehicles run much quieter than gasoline-powered vehicles, therefore the A/C compressor may be more audible.

## Electrical System

Fuses and Circuit Breakers
The vehicle is equipped with fuses and circuit breakers to prevent electrical system overload. The fuse box in the vehicle is located under the right front engine hood, at the top of the 12 volt battery, and behind the driver’s side dashboard. If the fuse/relay blows, it is strongly recommended that only VinFast technicians replace or inspect the electrical fuse.
When a fuse blows, the element inside the fuse is melted or broken. Always replace a fuse with fuse of identical size and rating. If the replaced fuse blows immediately after replacing, contact the local VinFast Service Center for maintenance as soon as possible.
WARNING
Fuses and circuit breakers are marked with their ampere rating. Do not exceed the specified rating when replacing fuses and circuit breakers. The use of an oversized fuse or circuit breaker can result in a vehicle fire causing serious injury or death.
Installing fuses that do not meet VinFast’s original fuse specifications is dangerous. The fuses could fail, resulting in a fire causing vehicle damage and/or death.
Spilling liquid on any electrical component in the vehicle may damage it. Always be very careful when working around electrical components.
CAUTION
A fuse must not be replaced with anything but another fuse of same size and rating.
Never try to repair a blown fuse.
Do not use copper wire or aluminum foil as a temporary substitute for a proper fuse. Such substitutes can cause extensive wiring damage, possibly resulting in a fire.
Avoid using a screwdriver or any other metal objects to remove fuses, as they may cause short circuits.
IP Fusebox
Instrument Panel fuse box is located in the lower left-hand side of the dashboard.
To access Front IP fusebox:
Turn the vehicle OFF.
Make sure all switches are in the OFF position.
Use a suitable tool to disengage the 7 clips, then remove the instrument panel left cover.
Use a suitable tool to remove the 2 screws.
Use a suitable tool to disengage the 8 clips, then remove the left dashboard guard plate.
Refer to the instructions detail below.
Remove the blown fuse out by using the removal tool which is provided in the front compartment fuse box.
Check and replace the blown fuse.
Make sure the replaced fuse has the same rating and it fits tightly in its place. If in doubt, please contact a VinFast service technician.
Fuse Details:
IP FUSE & RELAY DETAILS
Fuse Name
Fuse Identification
Type
Rating
D Seat
IF01
FUSE
30A
CL30s Relay 1
IF02
FUSE
30A
CL15
IF03
FUSE
30A
Rear Defrost
IF04
FUSE
40A
CL30s Relay 2
IF05
FUSE
30A
L BCM_J3-06
IF06
FUSE
30A
ETG
IF07
FUSE
30A
12V Socket Relay Power
IF08
FUSE
30A
SS
IF09
FUSE
5A
L BCM_J5-02
IF10
FUSE
15A
MHU 1
IF11
FUSE
20A
MHU 2
IF12
FUSE
20A
TBOX
IF13
FUSE
5A
R BCM_J4-15
IF14
FUSE
15A
C130s Relay 3
IF15
FUSE
25A
L BCM_J5-01
IF16
FUSE
15A
L BCM_J3-20
IF17
FUSE
15A
L BCM_J3-19
IF18
FUSE
30A
ACU/OCS Relay
IF19
FUSE
5A
L BCM_J3-01
IF20
FUSE
15A
L BCM_J5-21
IF21
FUSE
10A
CVC
IF22
FUSE
10A
CVC
IF23
FUSE
10A
SRR_RR/TBOX/RR Host USS/SRR_RL/MHU/MFS
IF24
FUSE
5A
-
IF25
FUSE
-
FL BCM/FR BCM/SS
IF26
FUSE
5A
IRVM
IF27
FUSE
5A
MHU/IMU/TBOX
IF28
FUSE
5A
12V Socket LBCM J3-10
IF29
FUSE
5A
AMBIENT LIGHTS
IF30
FUSE
5A
Front USB/REAR USB
IF31
FUSE
15A
F/R Read_lamp/Sun visor Light LR/Trunk Lamp L.R
IF32
FUSE
5A
-
IF33
FUSE
-
L/R Rearview Mirror
IF34
FUSE
7.5A
WPC1
IF35
FUSE
5A
WPC2
IF36
FUSE
5A
TAILGATE Lock
IF37
FUSE
10A
D SEAT ECU
IF38
FUSE
5A
-
IF39
FUSE
-
-
IR01
RELAY
-
CL30S Relay 1
IR02
RELAY
30A
CL15 Relay
IR03
RELAY
30A
CL30S Relay 2
IR04
RELAY
30A
Rear Defrost Relay
IR05
RELAY
40A
CL30S Relay 3
IR06
RELAY
30A
CL30C Relay
IR07
RELAY
30A
Front Compartment Fusebox
To access Front Compartment fuses:
Turn the vehicle OFF.
Make sure all switches are in the OFF position.
Open the front hood to see it, see >   Front and Rear Compartments > Front Hood  .
Locate the fusebox by removing the cover plate.
Press the tab and pull upwards to remove the fuse panel cover.
Refer to the description provided inside the fuse panel cover to replace the required fuse.
Remove the blown fuse out by using the removal tool which is provided in the front compartment fuse box.
Check and replace the blown fuse.
Make sure the replaced fuse has the same rating and it fits tightly in its place. If in doubt, please contact a VinFast service technician.
NOTE
Remember to securely install the fuse panel cover back, if not securely attached water may enter and cause electrical damage.
Front Compartment Fuse Label:
Front Compartment Fusebox Details
Fuse Name
Fuse Identification
Type
Rating
WCBS1
EF01
FUSE
60A
WCBS2
EF02
FUSE
60A
Front HVAC
EF03
FUSE
40A
Cooling Fan
EF04
FUSE
50A
-
EF05
FUSE
-
R BCM_J4-16
EF06
FUSE
20A
6 IN 1
EF07
FUSE
7.5A
EVCC
EF08
FUSE
7.5A
BMS 1
EF09
FUSE
7.5A
Front Defrost Relay
EF10
FUSE
10A
OBD/FCAM
EF11
FUSE
10A
PAAK
EF12
FUSE
10A
Realy Coil
EF13
FUSE
5A
R BCM_J3-18
EF14
FUSE
20A
R BCM_J4-17
EF15
FUSE
20A
R BCM_J3-10
EF16
FUSE
10A
BMS 2
EF17
FUSE
7.5A
Main Relay
EF18
FUSE
15A
Brake Light Switch
EF19
FUSE
5A
R BCM_J3-25
EF20
FUSE
25A
Motor Pump
EF21
FUSE
20A
BMS Pump
EF22
FUSE
20A
EAC
EF23
FUSE
5A
ITM
EF24
FUSE
7.5A
FCAM
EF25
FUSE
5A
MRR/FR Host USS/RLS/USB
EF26
FUSE
5A
EVCC
EF27
FUSE
5A
WCBS_CL15
EF28
FUSE
5A
BMS/6in1-CL15
EF29
FUSE
5A
EPS_CL15
EF30
FUSE
5A
12V Socket RR
EF31
FUSE
20A
12V Socket IP
EF32
FUSE
20A
-
EF33
FUSE
-
-
EF34
FUSE
-
-
EF35
FUSE
-
-
EF36
FUSE
-
-
EF37
FUSE
-
-
EF38
FUSE
-
HVAC(PTC)
EF39
FUSE
5A
-
EF40
FUSE
-
-
EF41
FUSE
-
-
EF42
FUSE
-
-
EF43
FUSE
-
-
EF44
FUSE
-
-
EF45
FUSE
-
-
EF46
FUSE
-
-
EF47
FUSE
-
-
EF48
FUSE
-
MAIN Relay
ER01
RELAY
30A
WP 1 Relay
ER02
RELAY
30A
WP2 Relay
ER03
RELAY
30A
Front Defrost Relay
ER04
RELAY
30A
-
ER05
RELAY
-
12V Socket Relay
ER06
RELAY
40A
-
ER07
RELAY
-
-
ER08
RELAY
-
Front HAVC Relay
ER09
RELAY
40A
Cooling Fan Relay
ER10
RELAY
40A
12v Auxiliary Battery Fuse box:
Turn the vehicle OFF.
Make sure all switches are in the OFF position.
Open the front hood to see it, see >   Front and Rear Compartments > Front Hood  .
Locate the fusebox by removing the cover plate  .
Remove the fuse panel cover.
Refer to the description provided inside the fuse panel cover to replace the required fuse.
Remove the blown fuse out by using the removal tool which is provided in the front compartment fuse box.
Check and replace the blown fuse.
Make sure the replaced fuse has the same rating and it fits tightly in its place. If in doubt, please contact a VinFast service technician.
Fuse Label:
Front Compartment Fusebox details
No.
Fuse Name
Type
Rating
1
DCDC
Slow Blow Fuse
300A
2
IP Fuse
Slow Blow Fuse
150A
3
EPS
Slow Blow Fuse
125A
4
Engine Fuse
Slow Blow Fuse
200A
Lights
The vehicle is fitted with Light Emitting Diodes (LED) in all Interior and Exterior Lights. Contact VinFast Service for any light replacement. Replacement lights must be of the same type and size as the original lights.
Exterior Lights
Front Light:
Front Signature Light
Front Combination Lights
Turn Signal Light in Side Mirror Assembly
Rear Lights:
Tail Lights
Rear Signature Light
Center High Mount Stop Light (CHMSL)
Rear Reflectors
Reverse Light
Licence Plate Lights
Tail Lights
Rear Position/Signature Light
Turn Signal Light
Brake/Stop Light
NOTE
The LED lamp is an integrated unit and hence individual elements cannot be replaced individually.
Interior Lights
All interior lights are LED; therefore, it is recommended to visit a VinFast Service Center for any replacements or faults.
Front Dome Lamp
Rear Inside Lamp
Battery (12V)
The vehicle is equipped with a 12V battery that is used to power some of the vehicle’s electrical components.
Even when the electrical equipment is switched off, the battery can still drain if it is not driven for long periods of time. Contact an authorized VinFast dealer or authorized VinFast service facility for more information.
WARNING
Wear correct PPE to avoid injury from acid splashes from the battery.
Keep batteries out of reach from children.
Batteries contain sulfuric acid, avoid contact with skin and eyes or clothes. Wash immediately with water if contact is made. Seek medical attention if you feel pain or burning sensations.
Never touch any of the electrical system components when vehicle is starting or when ignition is On.
The Battery has no parts that the owner or a non-VinFast authorized service technician can service. Under no circumstances should you open or tamper with the Battery. Contact authorized VinFast Service Center to arrange for Battery servicing.
NOTE
When the vehicle is parked for a long time (more than 1 month), it is recommended to disconnect the negative terminal of the battery.
Battery Maintenance
To ensure optimum working of electrical components of the vehicle, check the health of the 12V battery regularly.
Ensure the battery is securely mounted.
Ensure the battery is clean and dry, with no visible liquid leaks.
Ensure the battery terminals and connections are always clean and secure.
Battery Replacement
It is recommended to replace the original battery with one that has equivalent specifications. Please contact a VinFast Service Center for further details.
The following functions may need to be reset after the battery has been disconnected:
Climate control settings
Clock and Phone settings
Infotainment system

## Wheels and Tires

Tires
Tires have a significant impact on the driving characteristics of vehicles, and tire type, size, tire pressure, rated speed, and appropriate tire maintenance are all important factors that determine vehicle performance.
The following options are available depending on the region of sale and variant of the vehicle.
235/50 R19
Depending on the climate and where the vehicle will be driven, alternative ﻿tires may be needed. These are classified as Summer, Winter, or All-Season ﻿tires. For more information, please visit the nearest VinFast Service Center.
Tire Care
To ensure the safety of all the passengers and maximize the efficiency and range of the vehicle, it is recommended to maintain proper ﻿tire pressure and stay within the specified load limits of the vehicle.
Any ﻿tire that show uneven wear or are damaged must be replaced or repaired as soon as possible. Worn ﻿tires can cause loss of traction, braking effectiveness and can affect steering control.
Please check the tire pressure regularly, especially before starting long-distance driving. When inflating a tire, be sure to reach the pressure specified on the tire information label, see >   Wheels and Tires > Tire pressure  .
Tire Inspection
Correct inflation pressure and good driving habits will prolong the service life of tires.
Please regularly check tire pressure (Once every 14 days).
Please regularly check the tires for damage (cuts or cracks, etc.) and periodically check for any abnormal wear.
NOTE
Always replace ﻿tire with the same size, type, and tread pattern as originally supplied by the vehicle manufacturer.
Parking outside in direct or indirect sunlight may cause a difference in tire pressure. An increase of tire pressure is expected in tires that are warm. In an attempt to maintain recommended air pressure do not release air pressure from a warm tire, this can cause the tire to be under-inflated.
Please check and make necessary changes to ﻿tires that are damaged, excessively worn, or incorrectly inflated before driving.
Spare Tire (if equipped)
The vehicle is equipped with one spare tire located in the rear cargo compartment, under the cargo floor mat.
T145/80 R19
The maximum allowable vehicle speed for the spare tire is indicated on a sticker located on the spare wheel. The spare tire is fully inflated when new, however, it can lose air over time. Check the inflation pressure regularly. Always correctly stow and inspect the spare tire to ensure it is ready for use when needed.
The damaged or flat road tire should be repaired or replaced and installed back onto the vehicle as soon as possible so that the spare tire will be available in case it is needed again.
WARNING
Do not drive the vehicle above the indicated maximum speed shown on the spare wheel.
Do not drive if the spare tire is damaged or not properly inflated. This can cause serious damage to the vehicle and a risk to passenger safety.
The vehicle’s suspension is designed for a specific tire and rim size combination. Only fit tire and wheel combinations as specified by VinFast. Failure to follow this can increase the risk of serious injuries in the event of an accident.
NOTE
A spare ﻿tire is for TEMPORARY USE ONLY. Drive carefully when a spare ﻿tire is fitted on the vehicle. Do not exceed 80 km/h when driving with a spare tire.
Always replace the spare ﻿tire in the case of abnormal wear & tear, distortions, or bulges.
Non-pneumatic ﻿tire are not recommended to be used on the vehicle.
Tire Pressure
To ensure maximum tire life and safe vehicle performance it is important to regularly check tire pressures and ensure tires are inflated to the recommend pressures.
All tire pressures should be checked when the tires are cold.
The Tire and Loading Information label indicates the original equipment tire fitted to the vehicle and provides the recommended cold tire inflation pressure.
Tire Pressure Placard
The recommended tire pressure is listed on the label attached to the driver’s side center pillar:
Under inflated tires will produce excessive wear on the inner and outer edges of the tire and may cause the vehicle to display poor handling quality due to excessive tire flexibility.
Over inflated tires will produce a reduced contact area with the road surface and may lead to reduced traction.
Tires over inflated will also exhibit increased wear to the center of the tire resulting in overall increased tire wear.
Tire Pressure Check:
It is recommended to check tire pressures, every 14 days and before undertaking long distance journeys.
Remove the valve cap from the tire valve stem.
Press the tire pressure gauge firmly onto the valve to get a pressure measurement. If the cold tire inflation pressure matches the recommended pressure on the  Tire Placard , no further adjustment is necessary.﻿
If the tire is under inflated, add air until the recommended pressure is reached.
If the tire is over inflated, release air by pushing on the metal stem in the center of the tire valve. Recheck the tire pressure with a pressure gauge.
Put the valve caps back on the valve stems. Without the valve cap, dirt or moisture could get into the valve and cause air leakage. If a valve cap is missing, install a new one as soon as possible.
If a tire is not maintaining pressure, please have the tire inspected at a VinFast Service Center.
WARNING
Driving with an incorrectly inflated tire can affect the vehicle handling, steering, and braking. This can lead to an accident, causing serious injury or death.
Under-inflated tires are the most common cause of tire failures and can cause severe tire cracking, tread separation, or blowout, resulting in sudden loss of vehicle control and accidents.
Insufficient tire pressure leads to tire sidewall flexing and an increase of rolling resistance, which results in heat buildup and internal damage. Additionally, it can contribute to tire damage, irregular tire wear and loss of vehicle control. It is possible for a tire to lose up to half of its air pressure and not appear flat.
NOTE
Incorrectly inflated tires may wear faster and create more road noise.
Tire Pressure Monitoring System
The tire pressure monitoring system (TPMS) measures each tire’s pressure. If one or more tires are significantly under inflated or if the system is malfunctioning, a warning telltale will illuminate. The system uses sensors in each wheel to show information related to the vehicle tire pressures and warns if any tires are under-inflated. Tire Pressures are displayed on the Infotainment screen.
TPMS Sensors
The TPMS system uses sensors in each tire that transmit real-time information on tire pressure and temperature. The sensors are attached to the valve.
Each sensor has an inbuilt battery and antenna.
NOTE
If the TPMS sensor battery gets depleted, then the unit needs to be replaced.
TPMS warning system
The TPMS system warns the driver if the tire pressure is below or above the recommended pressure. If an issue or missing sensor signal is detected, a TPMS alert symbol   will be displayed on the Infotainment screen. An alert popup will also be shown on the Infotainment screen and an audible chime will be heard. see >  Services >  Vehicle  Status .
Re-learning of TPMS Sensors
Each TPMS sensor has a unique identification code. The identification code needs to be matched to a new tire﻿/wheel position after rotating the vehicle’s tires﻿ or replacing one or more of the TPMS sensors.
WARNING
Check the tire﻿ pressure regularly using an accurate pressure gauge, when tires﻿ are cold.
Always check tire﻿ pressures of all the tires﻿ before starting your journey. If a tire﻿ pressure alert is displayed on the screen, slow down the vehicle, stop as soon as possible, and get the defect repaired.
If required, use the spare wheel (if equipped) in the rear cargo compartment to replace the defected tire or use a tire repair kit to repair the tire.
If a tire pressure is low, try to avoid any sudden direction changes or hard braking maneuvers.
Driving with under or over inflated tire﻿ can affect the vehicle handling, steering and braking. This can lead to an accident, causing serious injury or death.
Never overload the vehicle. Overloading can lead to loss of vehicle control and can increase the risk of an accident.
Incorrect tire pressures increase tire wear and has a negative effect on driving and braking behavior, which increases the risk of an accident.
TPMS does not substitute the regular tire maintenance. Check and inflate the tire﻿ to the recommended pressure regularly, even if low tire﻿ pressure alert is not displayed.
CAUTION
The spare tire (if equipped), is not fitted with a TPMS sensor. Under-inflation of this tire will not be detected by the TPMS system. The pressure in the spare tire should be checked by using tire pressure gauge regularly.
If a tire repair kit (if equipped) is used on a tire, the sealant may block the TPMS sensor. If this occurs the sensor will need to be cleaned or replaced.
Tire sealant materials are not all the same. A non-approved tire sealant could damage the TPMS sensors.
Tire Wear & Tread Depth
Tires are designed with tread wear indicators. When the tread wears down to these indicators, the tires must be replaced to prevent skidding or hydroplaning. These integrated wear indicators, also known as tread wear bars, appear as thin, flat rubber strips across the tread and become visible when the tire has worn down to its limit. If needed, a tread depth gauge can be used to measure the remaining tread accurately.
The wear should be even across the ﻿tire. The left and right ﻿tires should have the same amount of tread depth, to prevent the vehicle from losing control while driving.
Tire wear
The following situations can increase tire wear:
Inflation pressure that is too low or high can significantly increase tire wear.
Driving on curved roads at high speeds, rapid acceleration, and heavy braking increases the ﻿tire’s wear.
WARNING
Replace the worn or damaged ﻿tire immediately. Worn or damaged ﻿tires can cause loss of braking, steering control, and traction.
It is recommended to replace the ﻿tires in sets i.e., replace either both front two or rear two ﻿tires.
Always replace ﻿tires with the same size that was originally supplied.
Driving in hot weather or an overloaded vehicle can cause the ﻿tires to wear out faster. Inspect the ﻿tires regularly.
The grip of damaged ﻿tires is very low, especially on wet roads, which can cause the vehicle to float on the road surface (hydroplaning).
CAUTION
When the vehicle is in high speed and/or in wet conditions, steering and braking will not perform optimally.
Tire Rotation
Tires are critical components in ensuring optimum steering, handling and braking performance. This performance can be reduced by uneven tire wear. To ensure optimum performance is maintained it is recommended that tires are rotated on a regular basis. Tire rotation assists in extending tread life and maintaining traction performance in all conditions while contributing to a smooth and quiet ride.
To make the wear of each tire uniform and extend its life, it is recommended that the tires be rotated. During rotation, check the tires for correct balance. If the abnormal wear continues after the rotation, check the wheel alignment.
Use below rotation pattern when changing the tire positions:
Every time the tire is rotated, the wear should be checked. Check whether the tread pattern or the side of the tire is damaged or bulging. If tire is damaged or bulging, replace the tire immediately.
When rotating the tires, check the wear and condition of the brake disc and brake pads.
After the tires are rotated, ensure that the front and rear tire pressures and tightening force of the wheel nuts meet the specified values.
The wear should be even across the ﻿tire. The left and right ﻿tires should have the same amount of tread depth, to prevent the vehicle from losing control while driving.
Check whether the tread pattern or the tire sidewall is damaged. Replace the tire if:
The tire tread wear indicators at three or more places around the ﻿tire can be seen.
There is cord or fabric showing through the tires rubber.
The tread or sidewall is cracked, cut, or snagged deep enough to show cord or fabric.
The tire has a bump, bulge, or split.
The tire has a puncture, cut, or other damage that cannot be repaired well because of the size or location of the damage.
WARNING
Do not mix bias ply and radial ply tires under any condition. This can lead to abnormal handling that can cause the wheels to loosen over time. The wheel may fall off and cause an accident.
Rust or dirt on a wheel, or on the parts to where it is fastened, can cause wheel nuts to become loose over time. The wheel may become detached and cause an accident.
Do not apply grease to the wheel mounting surface, wheel conical seats, or wheel nuts or bolts. Grease applied to these parts can cause a wheel to become loose or come off, resulting in an accident.
CAUTION
When rotating tires with asymmetrical tread pattern, always make sure that the tire “OUTSIDE” marking on the sidewall should face outward.
Please visit a VinFast Service Center to rotate the tires diagonally if needed.
NOTE
After the tires are rotated, inflate the front and rear tires to the recommended tire inflation pressure. Check that all the wheel mounting nuts are properly tightened to the specified torque.
Wheel Alignment and Balance
The wheels and tires on the vehicle are aligned and balanced to give the maximum ﻿tire life and optimum performance. In most cases, the wheels and tires do not need alignment and balancing regularly. However, if any abnormal tire wear is observed or the vehicle starts pulling one way or towards one side, then alignment may be needed.
The vehicle is vibrating when driving on a smooth road, the tires and wheels may need to be rebalanced.
Wheels may need to be aligned in following scenarios:
After replacing or repairing the tire in a collision accident.
Observed one-sided wear of front and rear tires.
After disassembling and repairing the tire, reassemble the tire on the rim.
If the wheels are shaking or the steering wheel is vibrating while driving at a high speeds.
When the vehicle pulls to the left or right, rather than going straight.
WARNING
Do not continue driving and promptly contact to the VinFast Service Center for assistance if there is a shock at the front wheel causing damage to the suspension system.
CAUTION
Incorrect wheel alignment causes excessive tire wear and may impact vehicle safety.

## Vehicle Cleaning

Exterior Care
Wash and clean the vehicle regularly to preserve the vehicle’s appearance and condition. Frequent cleaning is recommended for vehicles driven in coastal areas and on roads that have salt or antifreeze applied due to an increased risk of metal corrosion due to environmental conditions.
Glass surfaces like windshields, windows and mirrors should be cleaned regularly to ensure good visibility. Ensure that all exterior lights are clean and provide good forward visibility during low ambient driving conditions, and clear view of brake lights and directional indicator lights.
Cleaning Body Panels
Ensure that all the doors and windows are closed properly before washing. Remove any heavy deposits of mud and dirt with a nominal pressurized water spray from a distance of more than 30 cm. In case of hand washing, use approved diluted soap or shampoo in lukewarm water and wipe with a soft microfiber cloth.
Wash the vehicle with soapy water or non-corrosive mild gel detergents. Rinse with clean water and dry thoroughly using a chamois cloth or a soft microfiber cloth.
Inspect the vehicle for minor paintwork damage such as stone chips, etc. And where necessary, have it rectified immediately to prevent corrosion.
Cleaning Glass Surfaces
Clean windows and mirrors using an approved automotive glass cleaner. Do not use any abrasive cleaning fluid on any surface.
WARNING
Vehicle maintenance products may be toxic and hazardous in nature. Keep children away from all cleaning agents and products.
Use cleaning products in well-ventilated rooms or in open area to avoid inhaling any toxic vapors.
Improper care and cleaning of vehicle parts can impair the safety features of the vehicle which can lead to accidents causing serious injuries or death. Follow manufacturer’s instructions to properly clean vehicle parts.
Always use cleaning products that are approved or recommended by the manufacturer.
Improper use or incorrect application of maintenance products may cause burns, accidents leading to severe injuries or poisoning. Do not use turpentine, nail varnish remover, or other volatile fluids for vehicle cleaning. These substances are highly toxic and flammable.
Brake performance may be reduced after washing the vehicle. To check if they have been affected by water, test the brakes while driving slowly. If performance is impaired, dry the brakes by engaging them lightly while maintaining a slow speed.
CAUTION
Do not use any petroleum based/abrasive cleaning agents or hard/abrasive cleaning tools as they may damage the vehicle’s paint.
Improper vehicle cleaning can cause severe damage to the vehicle. Have stubborn stains removed by a qualified workshop.
Do not wash the vehicle under direct sunlight.
Hold the nozzle at a distance of more than 30 cm (12 in) away from the surface of the vehicle when using a high pressure washer.
Do not aim the high-pressure washer directly at charging port door, parking sensors, cameras, body seals, cables, electronic modules, doors, or the liftgate as these components may get damaged or could freeze up in cold weather conditions.
Do not use excessively hot water to clean the vehicle as it may severely damage the painted surfaces.
Prior to washing the vehicle, ensure the charging port door is closed. Do not spray high pressure water on the charge port as it may result in damage to the charge port door or related charging equipment.
Do not place any stickers or magnetic signs on vehicle components. The paint could get damaged when the stickers or magnets are removed.
Cleaning the Wheels
The wheels should be cleaned at the same time as the rest of the vehicle using the same solution. Rinse thoroughly with water after washing.
The wheels have a transparent protective layer (paint) to protect the wheel from corrosion and rust. Use of non-suitable cleaners (including some marketed wheel cleaners) or hard brushes can damage the coating.﻿ Only use a neutral cleaner and a soft brush or sponge to clean the wheels.
CAUTION
Drive slowly on a rough road or in off road conditions so as not to damage the ﻿tires and wheels. Inspect the tires and wheels after driving.
Drive the vehicle slowly while passing over a pothole, speed bump, manhole, or curb stone so as not to damage the tires and wheels.
Cleaning Underbody
Regularly check the underbody for buildup of dirt, grime and debris that may be lodged in unsuspecting areas.
Thoroughly flush the vehicle under body and wheel openings with lukewarm or cold water keeping a safe distance, avoid using high-pressure water when cleaning the underside of the vehicle and do not spray directly onto electrical components. The high voltage battery is sealed to prevent water intrusion.
If damage or corrosion is detected, have the vehicle inspected by a VinFast Service Center.
Keep the drain holes at the lower edges of the doors, rocker panels and frame members free from clogging with debris. Any trapped water inside these areas can cause corrosion.
WARNING
When attempting to clean the underbody of the vehicle, the vehicle must be parked on a flat surface in Park (P) gear with parking brake engaged and underbody surface must be cold.
Do not touch any orange colored high voltage cabling when cleaning the underbody of the vehicle.
Always wear protective clothing when cleaning near sharp metal components, for example vehicle underbody.
Automatic Car Wash
It is safe to wash electric vehicles in automatic car wash. The equipment will not damage the electric motor or battery as they are sealed to prevent water intrusion.
It is recommended to use touch-less automatic car washes as no contact is made to the exterior of the vehicle with rotating brushes that have the potential to damage the paintwork.
Please operate the vehicle according to the instructions on the automatic car wash equipment.
CAUTION
In automatic car washes, fold the exterior mirrors so that they do not get damaged.
Check and compare height and width of the car wash with the vehicle so that the vehicle does not get damaged.
Car washes that scan the contours mechanically may damage the vehicle, e.g., spoiler.
NOTE
Do not drive the vehicle through an automatic car wash that uses silicon carbide ﻿tire wheel cleaning brushes. It may damage the vehicle and the repairs would not be covered by the vehicle warranty.
Radar, Sensor, Camera Care
For the Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) to function correctly, the camera, radar and sensor must be kept free of dirt, mud, ice, snow, etc., and should be washed regularly with water and car washing detergent.
Obstructing the camera, radar or sensor can disable or cause limited functionality of the systems, and in some circumstances can show false warnings.
NOTE
If a camera, radar or sensor is blocked, a driver assistance warning message will appear on the Infotainment screen.
Windshield Camera
Driver Monitoring Camera (if equipped)
Left or Right Camera
Front Camera
Front or Rear Ultrasonic Sensors
Front Center Radar
Rear View Camera
Rear Left or Right Radar
Cleaning
Clear any dirt or grime build-up by wiping the components with a soft cloth and lukewarm water or by spraying water.
The Advanced Driver Assistance Sytems will function normally after cleaning. If the warning message persists after cleaning the sensors and cameras, the system may be faulty. Visit the nearest VinFast Service ﻿Center to have the system inspected.
If any damage is evident on any of the components or their surrounding parts (bumper or windshield), visit the nearest VinFast Service Center to have the issue rectified.
WARNING
Dirty or damaged radars, sensors or cameras may affect the performance of your Advanced Driver Assistance Systems.
Re-calibration is required if the windshield or radars have been replaced. The re-calibration process must be performed by a trained VinFast technician for optimal ADAS functions.
CAUTION
Do not clean sensors or cameras with abrasive objects or cleaners that may damage the surface and can lead to reduced functionality.
Do not attempt to remove dirt, grime, debris, etc., by wiping an exposed lens with your hands or a dry cloth. The lens can be damaged by micro particles rubbing against the lens surface while wiping.
When washing the vehicle, avoid aiming a high-pressure washer directly at the sensors or cameras.
Do not install or apply objects, such as a bumper sticker, film or a bumper guard on or near the radars and sensors.
Interior Care
Regularly clean the vehicle’s interior to prevent a build-up of dirt and dust that could cause premature degradation of the surfaces.
Wipe all surfaces down with a slightly damped microfiber cloth with approved interior cleaning products. Drying immediately will prevent streaks from remaining on the surface.
CAUTION
Do not spray liquid or cleaner directly onto the surface of switches and controls. It can leak into the gaps around switches and controls which can damage the electronics of the vehicle.
To prevent damage to interior surfaces, do not clean them with chemical solvents or strong detergents.
Do not apply excessive pressure while cleaning the vehicle.
NOTE
Ensure that water or other liquid does not come in contact with electrical or any electronic components inside the vehicle as this may damage them.
Apply all the cleaning agents directly to the cleaning cloth. It is advisable to use neutral detergents or low alcohol content solutions.
Cleaning Seats and Seat belts:
Regularly clean the seat upholstery, to prevent dirt getting ingrained and staining. Clean the seat surfaces using a clean, damp, non-﻿coloured cloth or vacuum with a soft brush attachment. Do not leave excessive water on the surface.
Fully extend the seat belts and clean them with a mild, non-abrasive soap and lukewarm water. After washing thoroughly, sponge the solution out of the belts. Do not allow the belts to retract until they are fully dry﻿.
Regularly inspect the seatbelt webbing for contamination, damage, or fraying.
WARNING
Any damage identified on a seatbelt should be fixed immediately at the nearest VinFast Service Center. Do not use a damaged seatbelt.
Do not allow passengers to ride in any area of the vehicle that is not equipped with seats and seat belts.
Do not allow any water, cleaning products or loose fabric from a cloth to enter the seat belt mechanism. Any foreign object may affect the performance of the seat belt in an event of a collision.
Damage to the seat belt can greatly reduce its effectiveness in reducing the risk of serious injury or death in the event of a collision.
Never remove seat belts to clean them.
CAUTION
Do not use bleach, strong detergents, or an abrasive brush or cloth to clean the seatbelt as it may damage and severely weaken the fabric.
Do not use brushes with hard bristles, hard sponges etc., to clean the seats as this may damage the seats.
Do not bleach or re-dye the webbing because this may weaken the seat belt.
Airbag Maintenance:
Foreign objects or substances should not enter the areas in the cabin where airbags are located, as it can impact proper operation of airbag system. The areas where airbags are located are marked as AIRBAG (see >   Airbags  ). Gently clean these surfaces without applying too much pressure with a slightly damp cloth.
WARNING
Any liquid or substance that enters the airbag mechanism may prevent its proper deployment in an event of a collision. A compromised airbag system could result in serious injury or death in the event of an accident.
Cleaning Glass Windows:
Clean the interior glass surfaces regularly using an approved glass cleaner to provide a clear and unobstructed view.
Follow the directions as specified by the glass cleaner manufacturer.
CAUTION
When cleaning the interior of the car window glass, be sure to use manufacturer approved glass cleaning products and wipe it clean with a relatively dry soft towel to avoid leaving water stains that may affect visibility.
Cleaning Infotainment Screen:
Use high quality clean microfiber cloth to clean the Infotainment screen. Do not use any chemical, household cleaning agents or abrasive materials as the Infotainment screen surface may be affected. Turn OFF the vehicle to avoid accidental activation of any Infotainment features.
CAUTION
Avoid spilling or splashing liquids on to the Infotainment screen. It may cause it to malfunction.
Switch OFF the Infotainment screen and allow to cool down before cleaning.
When cleaning, make sure no liquids enter the space between the Infotainment screen and panels as this could cause damage.
Cleaning Carpet and Floor Mat:
Regularly clean the carpet and floor mats. Remove any unwanted substances and objects that could interfere with the operation of accelerator and brake pedals. Scrub with a weak solution of soap and warm water to remove unwanted ingrained dirt or stains. Replace the floor mats if they show signs of heavy wear.
WARNING
Unsecured or incorrectly positioned mats can interfere with the operation of the brake and accelerator pedal that could result in an accident leading to serious injury or death. After cleaning, correctly secure the mats before driving.
Do not place a floor mat on top of another on the driver’s side.
Do not overlay additional mats or liners over the floor mats. If using all weather mats, remove the carpeted floor mats before installing them. Only use floor mats designed to connect to the anchors.
Remove loose dirt particles with a vacuum cleaner on a regular basis so that the material is not permanently damaged by abrasion.

## Maintenance Schedule

Maintenance Schedule﻿ Overview
This section outlines the required maintenance for the vehicle.
To ensure economical and safe vehicle operation, it is of vital importance that all maintenance work is carried out at the prescribed intervals by trained service technicians. It is recommended that this vehicle is maintained and repaired by ﻿authorized VinFast Service Centers who will complete the scope of work as set out for the required tasks to sustain the road safety, road worthiness, operational reliability, and the New Vehicle Limited Warranty.
It is the responsibility of the owner to have the required maintenance performed and to retain records. The vehicle is programmed to provide service reminders in the vehicle and on the VinFast App leading up to the schedule interval.
WARNING
All technical service required to be performed on the vehicle should only be performed by trained and ﻿authorised personnel who are certified to work on electric vehicles.
Do not attempt to modify, alter, or replace any high voltage components, cables, or connectors in the vehicle. High voltage cables are ﻿colored orange for easy identification.
A poorly maintained vehicle increases the risk to drivers, passengers, and others on the road. If not maintained correctly, there is a danger of subsequent component damage or injury to individuals.
NOTE
The vehicle should not be modified in any way that could adversely affect its performance, safety, or durability as it may violate conditions of the warranties covering the vehicle. For details, read the separate Warranty Information handbook provided with the vehicle.
Maintenance Schedule
o Inspect, adjust, correct, clean or replace (if necessary)
• Replace, change or service
Km*
15,000
30,000
45,000
60,000
75,000
90,000
105,000
120,000
135,000
150,000
Years*
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Cabin Air Filter
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Air conditioning System**
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
•
Radiator and A/C Condenser surface
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
HV Battery / E-Motor Cooling System Fluid
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
•
Brake Fluid
Change every 2 years
Ball joint of the A-arm, ball joints of the front and rear suspension systems.
Periodic inspection at scheduled maintenance intervals and replacement every 100,000 km or 3 years*
Tie rod end
Change every 5 years
General Service Inspection Items
"Tire (Appearance, Pressure, Tread wear)
Rim (Damage, Crack, Others)"
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Wheel Rotation***
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Brake Pads and Rotors
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Brake lines, Hoses and Connections
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Electric Drive Unit
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Axle and Suspension Parts
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Drive Shaft and Boots
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Steering Gear and Linkage
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Windscreen Wipers / Washer fluid
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Coolant Hose Inspection
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
High Voltage  Battery
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
High Voltage Cables and Wiring Harnesses
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Charging Port
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
12V Battery
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Underbody Inspection
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
* Whichever condition comes first.
** Regularly inspect and clean the drainage channels for the engine compartment fresh-air intake/cowl area and the air-conditioning drain.
*** Only rotate the position of the wheels and no wheel alignment is needed.
Repeat Maintenance Schedule every 10 years or 150,000 km, whichever comes first.
Service Reminder (if available)
The owner will be reminded when a service is due, via a message that is displayed on the Infotainment screen.
The notification that a service is due is determined by time since the last service and vehicle mileage.
Service technicians will clear the service reminder when the service is complete.
Maintenance Schedule Notes
The High Voltage battery/E-motor cooling system fluid is to be replaced every 10 years or when the battery is replaced.
The electric drive unit is sealed for life. No maintenance is required.
Additional Maintenance and Care
The cabin air filter may need replacement more frequently if driving in areas with high traffic, poor air quality or high dust levels. The filter may also need to be replaced if there is reduced airflow, window fogging or bad odors. See >   Fluids, Lubricants and Parts > Cabin Air Filter  .
Regularly clean the interior and exterior of the vehicle to maintain the vehicle’s appearance and condition and to prevent premature degradation of the surfaces. For more information, see >   Vehicle Cleaning  .
Regularly check and maintain the recommended the ﻿tire pressure to prevent premature wear. See >   Wheels and Tires > Tire Pressure  .
CAUTION
Do not allow the vehicle to sit idle for extended periods with a low charging state, otherwise it may not be possible to start or charge the vehicle and may also cause permanent damage to the battery.
Do not park or store the vehicle in areas which may flood, as flooding may damage the battery or other vehicle components.
Rodents can cause significant damage to your vehicle’s electrical wires, air lines and interior trim resulting in expensive repairs. Consequences of the damage may limit your vehicles functions such as, but not limited to, a no start condition or result in fluid leaks. Consider taking steps to discourage rodents such as repellent sprays. Any damage or related component failures caused by rodents are not covered under the New Vehicle Limited Warranty.
NOTE
The high voltage battery does not require owner maintenance. For any concerns, please contact a VinFast Service Center.

## Parts and Accessories

Parts and Accessories
Parts
VinFast parts are designed, tested, and manufactured according to VinFast’s uncompromising standards. Each part is made specifically to deliver optimum performance and maximize its lifespan.
WARNING
Installing parts and accessories non-genuine, or performing non-approved modifications, can affect the performance of the vehicle and the safety of its occupants.
Any damage caused by using or installing non-genuine parts, or by performing non-approved modifications, is not covered by the warranty.
VinFast is not responsible for any consequences resulting from the use or installation of non-genuine parts.
Spare Wheel (if equipped)
Spare tire information:
Tire Size
T145/80 R19
Wheel Rim
7.5J×19’’
The spare wheel is a different size to the standard road tires originally assembled on the vehicle.
It is located in the rear cargo compartment under the floor cover.
In the event of a flat tire, the spare wheel can be fitted temporarily until the original ﻿tire is replaced or repaired. For more information on wheels and tires, see >   Wheels and Tires  .
For more information on how to remove a wheel and replace with the spare, see >   Vehicle Recovery > Vehicle Jack & Tire Repair  .
Car jack (if equipped)
Car jack can be used to lift the vehicle.
The vehicle has four lifting points, see >   Vehicle Recovery > Vehicle Jack & Tire Repair  .
Tire repair kit (if equipped)
Tire repair kit is used when the tire tread is punctured and leaks air, and can be used for emergency tire repair. But tires that have been treated with tire repair fluid need to be cleaned and repaired in a timely manner.
Check the tire pressure placard on driver’s side B-Pillar before inflating tire. See >  Wheels and Tires >  Tire Pressure  .
The tire repair kit is stored in the rear cargo compartment under the floor cover.
Tow hook
Tow hook is used to tow vehicles. See >   Vehicle Recovery > Towing (EV)  .
Tow hook is stored in tool box in the rear cargo compartment.
Wheel cover
A wheel cover is a removable component installed on the outer surface of a wheel to protect the wheel rim, enhance vehicle appearance, and, on some vehicles, improve aerodynamic performance.
To remove Wheel Cover
Insert a plastic trim removal tool into the gap between the wheel cover and the wheel rim.
Carefully pry outward to release the retaining clips.
Move around the wheel cover, releasing the clips one by one until the cover becomes loose.
Hold the wheel cover with both hands and pull it straight away from the wheel to remove it.
Place the removed wheel cover on a clean, soft surface to prevent damage.
CAUTION
Do not use excessive force or metal tools, as they may damage the wheel cover or wheel rim.
Accessories
Genuine VinFast Accessories are specifically designed and tested for this vehicle. To buy genuine VinFast Accessories, visit the nearest VinFast Service Center or alternatively visit the VinFast website.
VinFast does not endorse any unauthorized third-party products or accessories to be used on the vehicle. VinFast recommends only using genuine accessories.
WARNING
Any parts, accessories, or modifications not approved by VinFast might adversely affect the performance and safety of the vehicle.
Any damage to the vehicle caused by the installation or modification of non-genuine parts is not covered by the warranty.
VinFast takes no responsibility for deaths, personal injuries, or damage that may result from the use of non-genuine accessories or modifications.
NOTE
VinFast will not be responsible for performance, repair, replacement, damage, or any adverse effect on the vehicle caused by a third-party accessory.
VinFast will only service genuine accessories fitted to the vehicle.
Accessories may vary depending on market region, vehicle variant and availability of the product.
Parcel Shelf (if equipped)
The parcel shelf can be used to store small and light objects, located behind the rear back seats. The parcel shelf can also be removed if necessary. See >   Storage > Rear Cargo Compartment  .
WARNING
Do not keep heavy or hard objects on the parcel shelf. In an event of sudden braking, maneuvering, or an accident the objects could become airborne and strike an occupant and cause serious injury.
CAUTION
The hinges and the dowels on the parcel shelf are not designed to carry heavy loads. Do not apply excessive force while installing or removing the parcel shelf. Using excessive force can break or damage the parcel shelf.
Floor Mats (if equipped)
The floor mats provide a protective layer to the vehicle’s carpet, and prevents it from getting dirty, wet or moist.
WARNING
Do not use additional mats, carpets or floor covers in driver’s foot well, as this can reduce the pedal movement or range and can impair pedal operation.
CAUTION
Floor mats are specifically designed to fit the foot well of the vehicle and are secured to the carpet. Using non-genuine floor mats can lead to problems such as hindering pedal movement.
Always make sure that the floor mats are securely anchored.

# Technical Specifications


## Fluids, Lubricants and Parts

Fluids, Lubricants and Parts Overview
The fluids, lubricants, and parts in the vehicle have been specified to enable owners to enjoy optimum performance from their VinFast vehicle. In order to maintain that performance, it is recommended that only VinFast genuine fluids, lubricants and parts are used during servicing and maintenance of the vehicle.
The specification of fluids & lubricants used in the vehicle are as follows:
AC Refrigerant  - R134a
AC Compressor Oil  - POE68﻿
Brake Fluid  - DOT 4
Battery and Motor Coolant  - Anti-Freeze Pre-Mixed Coolant AF2100 (ASTM D3306) - 50% Glycol / 50% Water Mixture
Transmission Fluid  - CASTROL BOT352_B1﻿
Low Voltage Battery  - 12V Lead Acid Battery
Climate Control Cabin Air Filter  - Common model
NOTE
For the recommended fluid, lubricant, part inspection and replacement frequency; refer to the Maintenance Schedule. See >   Maintenance Schedule > Maintenance Schedule Overview  .
WARNING
High voltage and HVAC component servicing must be done by ﻿authorized VinFast technicians.
It is recommended that the vehicle is serviced at a VinFast Service Center using genuine VinFast spare parts.
Use VinFast-approved DOT 4 brake fluid from a sealed container. Do not use fluid from an open container that may be contaminated which may result in damage to components, or braking loss causing serious injury or death in the event of an accident.
DOT 4 brake fluid is toxic. Avoid direct contact with eyes and skin. Refer to safety instructions on the fluid container for safe handling and recommendations if contact is made.
Anti- freeze coolant is toxic and may be fatal if ingested. Avoid Anti- freeze coolant from making contact with skin and eyes. If contact occurs, rinse immediately with plenty of water and seek medical attention if required.
Washer fluid can cause irritation to the eyes and skin. If contact occurs rinse immediately with water.
CAUTION
Using incorrect fluids, lubricants, or parts may damage the vehicle.
Brake fluid can damage electrical components if it comes in/into contact with cables, wiring, headlights, plastic components, and painted surfaces. When changing brake fluid, use rags and suitable containers to prevent fluid from coming into contact with the vehicle. If brake fluid comes into contact with painted surfaces wash the area immediately with plenty of water.

## Vehicle Identification

Vehicle Identification Number
The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) is the legal identifier of the vehicle. It is a unique identification code used to register vehicle ownership.
The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) is located at the following locations:
VIN code   is included in the vehicle nameplate and can be viewed by opening the driver side door.
VIN code   is engraved under the passenger seat. Move the seat back and lift the VIN code cover to view it.
Under the windshield on the driver’s side  .
On the Infotainment screen. See >   Settings > About  .
Compliance Labels
The manufacturer’s certification label (Compliance Label)   is located on the driver side (B-Pillar).
The following information is provided on the label:
Brand
Vehicle type
Year of manufacturing
Name of manufacturer
Vehicle identification number (VIN)
Gross Vehicle Weight Rating (GVWR)
Curb Weight
WARNING
Do not overload the vehicle. Vehicle overloading can result in the driver losing control of the vehicle and increase the risk of an accident.
Overloading and high speeds can cause ﻿Tires to overheat, resulting in a burst ﻿tire and loss of control.
Overloading can also impair stopping power, damage ﻿Tires, and shorten the life of the vehicle.
Vehicle License Plate
The front and rear license plates which are issued by the local authorities need to remain securely fixed to the vehicle, be clearly visible from a distance, and not blocked by any object at all times.
Under no circumstances should a license plate frame be attached to the perimeter of the plate. Doing so may obstruct the camera, radar or parking sensors affecting their functionality.
Energy Label
The Energy Label is affixed to the rear door window glass.
Actual energy consumption may vary depending on operating conditions, driving habits, and the vehicle’s maintenance condition.

## Vehicle Information

Dimensions and Weights
The following tables contain information related to vehicle Dimensions and Weights. All data is accurate at the time of publication. Any changes made post release of this version will be updated on the Online version of the Owner’s Manual.
NOTE
Depending on the installation of the selected accessories, vehicle specific data may differ from these published figures.
Exterior Dimensions
Item
Description
Measurement
Vehicle Length
4701 mm
Vehicle Height
1670 mm
Vehicle Width with Mirrors
2123 mm
Vehicle Width without Mirrors
1872 mm
Wheelbase
2840 mm
Track - Front
Track - Rear
1585 mm
1596 mm
Ground Clearance (No load)
170 mm
Weights
Description
Weight
Curb Weight
1870 kg
Payload
450 kg
Calculating Load Limits:
Locate the statement “The combined weight of occupants and cargo should never exceed XXX kg” on the vehicle’s placard.
Determine the combined weight of the driver and passengers that will be riding in the vehicle.
Subtract the combined weight of the driver and passengers from XXX kg﻿.
The resulting figure equals the available amount of cargo and luggage load capacity. For example, if the “XXX” amount equals 300 kg and there will be four 65 kg passengers in the vehicle, the amount of available cargo and luggage load capacity is 40 kg (300 - 260(65 × 4) = 40 kg).
Determine the combined weight of luggage and cargo being loaded on the vehicle. That weight may not safely exceed the available cargo and luggage load capacity calculated in Step 4.
Subsystems
Electric Motor
Description
Details
Type/Model
PMSM
Cooling
Fluid-cooling
Operating Voltage (DC)
270V~465V
(240V~480V is maximum operating Voltage)
Max. Power
170 kW
Max. Torque
330 Nm
Battery - High Voltage
Description
Details
Type
LFP
Battery Capacity (Usable)
60.13 kWh
Battery - 12V
Description
Details
Rating
36 Ah
Voltage
12 V
Brake System
Description
Details
General
Integrated Dynamic Brake
Front Brake
Vented disc
Rear Brake
Solid disc
Parking Brake
EPB - Electronic Parking Brake
Steering System
Description
Details
Type
EPS
Turning Angle (Inner)
38.2°
Turning Angle (Outer)
32.1°
Suspension System
Description
Details
Suspension - Front
MacPherson independent
Suspension - Rear
Control blade
Air Conditioning System
Description
Details
Refrigerant Type
R134a
Wheels and Tires
Wheel Specification (Factory Fitted)
Wheel Diameter
Location
Width
Offset
19”
Front/Rear
190.5mm
45mm
Tire Specification
Description
Details
Size
235/50 R19
Max Load
Front - 875 kg
Rear - 875 kg
Speed Level
240 km/h
Load Index
103
The recommended tire pressure is listed on the label attached to the driver’s door frame and is visible when the door is open. See >   Wheels and Tires > Tires Pressure  .
Space Saving Spare Tire Specification (if equipped)
Description
Details
Size
T145/80 R19
The recommended ﻿tire pressure is listed on the label attached to the driver’s door frame and is visible when the door is open. See >   Wheels and Tires > Tires Pressure  .
Tire Sidewall Labeling
Tire manufacturers are required to place standardized information on the tire sidewall. This information identifies the basic characteristics of the tire, including the manufacturer, construction, tire size, load and pressure information, service description, certification markings, and serial identification. Depending on the tire manufacturer and market region, the sidewall may also include a DOT serial number and other regulatory approval markings.
Manufacturer Name: Indicates the tire manufacturer.
Construction (Material): Indicates the number of plies or the number of layers of rubber-coated fabric in the tire tread and sidewall. Additionally, tire manufacturers must indicate the materials in the tire and the sidewall, which can include steel, nylon, polyester, etc.
Product Serial: Indicates the tire product line, model, or serial designation used by the manufacturer to identify the tire.
Load/Pressure:
Maximum Load: Indicates the maximum load (in kg) which can be carried by the tire.
Maximum Permissible Inflation Pressure: Indicates the tire manufacturers’ maximum permissible air pressure for the tire. Do not exceed the maximum permissible inflation pressure.
NOTE
Refer to the Tire and Loading Information label for recommended inflation pressure.
Tire Size, Load Index, Speed Symbol and Extra Load:
Tire Size:
Tire Width
The 3-digit number is the tire width (from one sidewall edge to another).
Aspect Ratio
The 2-digit number indicates the tire’s sidewall height as a percentage of the tire’s width. (Example: A tire designated 235/50 will have a tire height that is 50% of the width).
Tire Construction
Tire marked “R” indicates Radial Ply Construction.
Wheel Diameter
The 2-digit number is the diameter of the wheel or rim in inches.
Load Index: The 2 or 3 digit number indicates the maximum weight a ﻿tire can bear at its speed rating when inflated to its maximum pressure. It is an index and is not stated in pounds or any other unit of measurement.
Speed Symbol: The letter indicates the maximum speed at which a ﻿tire is designed to be driven for extended periods of time under a standard condition of load and inflation pressure.
Letter/Symbol
Maximum Speed (mph)
M
130 km/h (81 mph)
N
140 km/h (87 mph)
Q
160 km/h (99 mph)
R
170 km/h (106 mph)
S
180 km/h (112 mph)
T
190 km/h (118 mph)
U
200 km/h (124 mph)
H
210 km/h (130 mph)
V
240 km/h (149 mph)
W
270 km/h (168 mph)
Y
300 km/h (186 mph)
NOTE
Some tire manufacturers use the letters ZR for ﻿tires with a maximum speed rating over 240 km/h (149 mph).
For tires with a maximum speed rating over 300 km/h (186 mph), the letter ZR is compulsory.
Extra Load: Indicates that the tire is designed to carry a higher load than a standard load tire of the same size.
NOTE
Replacement ﻿tires should be of the same load range.
Mold No.: Indicates the mold number used during manufacturing for identification and production traceability.
DOT Serial Number: Begins with the letters DOT and indicates that the tire meets applicable federal standards. The following letters and numbers identify the manufacturing plant, tire size code, pattern code, and brand code.
Tube Application & Tire Structure: Indicates whether the tire is tubeless or tube-type and identifies the tire structure, such as radial construction.
Tire Size (Big Font): Repeats the tire size marking in large characters for quick identification.
Safety Warning Note: Provides important tire safety information relating to inflation, loading, mounting, and service.
WARNING
Tire failure due to underinflation or overloading can cause serious injury or death. Always follow the tire placard on the vehicle.
Quality Grading:
Tread Wear Grade: This number indicates the tire’s wear rate. The higher the tread wear number, the longer it should take to wear down the tread. (Example: A tire rated at 400 lasts twice as long as a tire rated at 200.).
Traction Grade: Indicates a tire’s ability to stop on wet roads. The traction grades, from highest to lowest are AA, A, B, and C. A tire with a higher grading should allow the vehicle to stop at a shorter distance than a lower graded tire.
Temperature Grade: The temperature grades are A (the highest), B and C, representing the tire’s resistance to the generation of heat and its ability to dissipate heat. This grading is provided for a correctly inflated tire, which is being used within its speed and loading limits.
ECE Certification: Indicates that the tire complies with applicable certification or regulatory approval requirements.
Mounting Instruction: Provides mounting orientation information for the tire, such as inside/outside marking where applicable. Always ensure the tire is installed in the correct orientation.
Product Made Location: Indicates the country where the tire was manufactured.
Standard Rim: Indicates the standard rim specification approved for use with the tire.
WARNING
Tires exhibiting excessive or uneven wear, or signs of damage should be replaced as soon as possible. Failure to replace Tires in this condition may result in loss of control of the vehicle or reduced braking effectiveness.
Never exceed the maximum rated speed of the Tires. This could cause a buildup of heat resulting in a burst tire and loss of vehicle control.
Always closely monitor the weather and road conditions while driving. Reduce the vehicle’s speed when driving on icy or slippery roads.
Always follow VinFast-approved tire/rim combinations when replacements are required. Different size of tires and wheels can result in unusual handling characteristics, poor vehicle control, or a negative impact on your vehicle’s Anti-Lock Brake System (ABS) resulting in a serious accident.
It is important to repair or replace a damaged ﻿tire as soon as possible as the spare ﻿tire is not designed for long term use.
Replacing only one tire may negatively affect vehicle handling, therefore it is recommended tires should be replaced in pairs, replacing two front tires or two rear tires at the same time.
It is normal for Tires to degrade over time, even when not being used. VinFast recommends replacing Tires after six (6) years of normal service, regardless of the remaining tread life.
NOTE
Not all information may be available on all Tires.

# Vehicle Assistance


## Services

Services Overview
If available, VinFast Connected Services technology offers various services to support the running of the vehicle and provides assistance when necessary or in an emergency, depend on the sale area, the connected services may different. Connected services include:
Help Center
VinFast connected services provides a suitable process to book a service appointment from the comfort of your vehicle. Service booking may be scheduled by calling Customer Support.
For more information, see >   Help Center  .
Emergency Call (eCall)
E-call is automatically triggered in the event of an accident or by physical request by the occupants.
For more information See >   Emergency Call (eCall)  .
Remote Diagnostics
A VinFast Service Technician can connect to the vehicle remotely and access data to help with vehicle diagnosis.
For more information, see >   Remote Diagnostics  .
Remote Software Update
The owner can update the vehicle software wirelessly with over the air system updates (FOTA) without the need to visit a VinFast Service Center.
For more information, see >   Remote Software Update  .
Vehicle Status
The Vehicle Status interface displays tire pressure information and all vehicle warning messages, giving the driver a quick and clear overview of the vehicle’s current status.
Tire Pressure
The Tire Pressure page displays the real-time tire pressure values and status of all four tires.
To view the tire pressure:
Tap  App Library    >  Service App    >  Vehicle Status    >  Tire Pressure .
View the current tire pressure status and reading for each wheel.
Tire﻿ pressure status display:
Normal Pressure
TPMS sensor battery low
High Tire Pressure
Tire Rapid Air Loss
Low Tire Pressure
TPMS Sensor failure
Lost Connection with TPMS Sensor
High Temperature
NOTE
The <N> shown in the illustrations is for demonstration purposes only. The actual pressure reading shown on the screen will vary depending on the current tire pressure.
Vehicle Alerts
The Vehicle Alerts page shows all vehicle related alerts and warning messages that are currently present on the vehicle. The Vehicle Alerts page also provides additional information or recommended user actions associated with each vehicle warning.
When a vehicle alert is triggered, it is displayed as a notification in the Driver View Area, along with a matching telltale icon.
To view the vehicle alerts:
Tap the  Popup Notification  in the Driver View Area.
Or, Tap  App Library    >  Service App    >  Vehicle Status    >  Alerts .
View all vehicle warning messages.
Help Center
VinFast provides a hotline number so that customers can schedule service appointments or request roadside assistance by calling the Customer Support department.
To contact the Customer Support department:
Tap  App Library    >  Service App   .
Find  Help Center   , the hotline number will be provided here.
Tap on  Call  icon (if available, for VN market) or the Hotline card (for other markets).
WARNING
In the event of a minor accident, exit the vehicle if safe to do so, and stand clear until Roadside Support arrives. The trained personnel will isolate the vehicle from any dangers associated with the high voltage components.
NOTE
The Call icon only appears when the vehicle is connected to your phone. When you tap the icon, the system will use your phone to make a call to the customer service center.
Roadside Assistance
In the unlikely event of a vehicle breakdown or an accident, specialized support is available through the local Roadside Assistance service providers to help get you going again.
To call Roadside assistance from Vehicle Alerts page:
Tap the  Popup Notification  in the Driver View Area.
Or, Tap  App Library    >  Service App    >  Vehicle Status    >  Alerts .
Tap on  Roadside Assistant  (if available).
To call Roadside assistance from Help Center:
Tap  App Library    >  Service App    >  Help Center   .
Select support form from  Customer Support  or  Roadside Assistance  (if available).
Tap on  Call  icon (if available, for VN market) or the Hotline card (for other markets).
Emergency Call (eCall) (if equipped)
What is eCall?
Emergency Call (eCall) is a connected service feature that connects the vehicle to a Emergency Call Center﻿ in the event of a vehicle collision or an emergency situation. When an eCall is triggered, critical information about the vehicle status and location are automatically provided to the Emergency Call Center﻿. This assists in ensuring the appropriate emergency response can be provided to the vehicle and its occupants.
eCall uses a public cell phone network to initiate a call to the Emergency Call Center.
Requirements
The system is only capable of operating in areas with a compatible cell phone network and emergency services infrastructure.
To activate eCall:
In serious emergency cases such as a severe accident triggering airbag deployment or activation of the seatbelt pretensioners, etc., the eCall system can activate automatically﻿.
Press and hold the emergency call (SOS) button in the vehicle to activate manually.
To manually activate eCall:
SOS button is present on the front dome lamp.
Press the SOS button to activate eCall until the notification appears to confirm activation of the emergency call.
To cancel the eCall during manual activation:
Tap the  Cancel  button on the confirmation popup within 5 seconds to cancel the ecall.
To switch eCall services (if available):
Tap  App Library    >  Service App    >  Emergency   .
Tap  Switch toThird-party e-Call  /  Switch to Pan-European e-Call .
WARNING
Do not wait for eCall﻿﻿﻿﻿ automatic assist when you can make the call by yourself. Press the ﻿SOS button immediately to avoid delays that could increase the risk of serious injury or death after a crash.
Be careful when making a manual eCall﻿﻿﻿﻿ while driving.
NOTE
If a standard phone call is active at the time eCall is triggered, the active call will be terminated to allow eCall to be placed.During the period when eCall is activated, the vehicle will not receive any incoming calls.
Manual activation of eCall is only possible when the vehicle is stationary and the ignition is on.
Remote Diagnostics
In order to assist in Vehicle’s Diagnosis, a VinFast service technician may contact you to establish a Remote Diagnostic connection with your vehicle. The VinFast service technician will guide you through the process of connecting to your vehicle. User permission may need to be granted in order to allow remote diagnosis of the vehicle.
Preconditions to start Remote Diagnostics:
Vehicle ON (Driver present)
HV Battery charge level to be greater than 30%
12V battery voltage to be greater than 11.5V
Have an Internet connection
Firmware Over The Air (FOTA) Update session must not be active
To Start Remote Diagnostics:
Tap  App Library    >  Service App   .
Find  Help Center   , the hotline number will be provided here.
Call the hotline numbe and ask technician to start remote diagnostics.
Remote diagnostics will be activated and a message will be displayed on the Infotainment screen. An icon along with a timer will also appear on the status bar.
After diagnostics is successfully completed, a pop-up message will be displayed on the Infotainment screen.
To Stop Remote Diagnostics:
Tap  Remote Diagnostics    icon, on the status bar.
Tap  Stop .
Tap  Stop  in the confirmation pop-up.
Remote diagnostics will stop and a pop-up message will be displayed on the Infotainment screen.
NOTE
Please ensure the vehicle remains powered ON and stationary at all times when a Remote Diagnostic session is active.
Remote Software Update
VinFast recommends updating the vehicle’s software whenever new updates are available. This will ensure the vehicle contains the latest features, functionality, and quality improvements.
To check for new updates﻿:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Or, Slide down from top of touchscreen to open Notification Center.
Tap  Settings    >  About    >  Software .
Available update will be shown on the screen.
NOTE
Notification is displayed on the infotainment screen whenever a new update is available. A notification will be added to the Notifications Page.
To download an update automatically:
Automatic Download:  The vehicle will automatically download updates over Wi-Fi if it is connected to a Wi-Fi network. There will be no prompt or confirmation presented to the user during that time. Enable or disable through the toggle button.
Download over Cellular Data:  The vehicle will switch to cellular data to download updates if Wi-Fi is not available. There will be no prompt or confirmation presented to the user during that time. Enable or disable through the toggle button.
NOTE
Please keep Wi-Fi connected and Camp mode enabled during the download.
To download an update manually:
Download an update manually by any of the following methods:
Via notification card
Via About settings
To download an update manually by About settings:
In the  Software  tab, tap  Download .
Tap  What’s New  >  Download .
The system will start downloading and will show the size of update and time remaining for completion of the update.
To pause or resume downloading:
After the download has started, tap  Pause  or  Resume .
NOTE
Vehicle continues downloading when vehicle is OFF.
If the download incompletes after a timeout (when vehicle is OFF), it will be resumed at the next start-up.
To install/schedule an update:
After the download has finished, Tap  Update now  or  Schedule  to set schedule for installation.
After successful installation, a notification is displayed on the Infotainment screen.
Installation failure
In the event the FOTA fails to install due to an error, follow the on-screen instructions to rectify the problem.

## Vehicle Recovery

Vehicle Jack & Tire Repair
A punctured tire can be repaired by using a tire repair kit (if equipped) or replaced using a spare tire (if equipped). In the case of extensive damage, you will need further support from Roadside Assistance.
NOTE
Driving with damaged tires can affect the handling and stopping performance of the vehicle.
Tire Inflation Fluid Tanks (if equipped)
WARNING
Do not use the tire inflation fluid to repair any damage to the ﻿tire side walls.
For safe operation, please read the instruction label located on the inflation kit.
A damaged or deflated tire should be repaired or replaced as soon as possible.
NOTE
The tire inflation fluid can only be used on one flat tire at a time. Contact VinFast Service Center if the sealant has been used and needs to be replaced.
The sealant has a limited lifespan. There is a label on the bottle that indicates the expiration date. The sealant needs to be replaced before it expires. Contact VinFast Service Center for replacement.
The tire inflation fluid is only effective for repairing punctures with a diameter less than 6 mm. Do not remove the foreign object causing the puncture. Removing the object may widen the opening and make repair with the repair kit impossible.
Before repairing the tire, follow the instructions below:
Ensure the vehicle is at a safe location that does not affect normal traffic and work can be undertaken safely. Place the vehicle in Park (P) and turn the vehicle OFF.
Turn on the hazard warning lights and place the warning triangle (if equipped) at an appropriate distance in front and behind the vehicle as a safety precaution.
If it is necessary to remove the puncture object and perform repair operation, move the punctured area to the 6’clock position, and then fill the tire inflation fluid into the tire. Tear off the safety cover connecting the valve.
Tighten the connecting valve of the tire inflation fluid and the tire valve. When using the product at temperature of (-40°C to 0 °C), warm the product to a temperature above 0°C, it will improve the filling efficiency.
Turn the valve clockwise and turn the tire inflation fluid bottle upside down.
When the tire inflation fluid is completely injected into the tire, close the valve counter-clockwise to complete the tire repair.
Immediately after inflating the tire, drive at least 10 km at a speed below 80 km/h to allow the sealant to distribute evenly. If the tire remains usable after this distance, you may continue driving at normal speed.
Visit a professional tire repair shop as soon as possible. However, the total driving distance should not exceed 500 km before the tire is properly repaired.
If the tire has lost pressure and remains damaged, stop driving, and contact the VinFast Service Center. Go to a professional tire repair shop as soon as possible.
If the tire loses pressure at any time after using this product, the vehicle should be safely stopped immediately and the VinFast Service Center should be contacted for assistance.
WARNING
If the tire inflation fluid is splashed on the tire or rim during use, rinse with water or wipe it with a cloth. If it gets in your eyes, rinse immediately with water, and consult a doctor immediately.
Do not drive with a deflated tire that has not been repaired, even if the puncture has not caused the tire to deflate. A deflated tire may suddenly lose tire pressure at any time leading to loss of control of the vehicle or may lead to an accident.
Store the inflation kit at temperatures between -40°C to 85°C. Keep it away from open flames.
NOTE
Accelerate, brake, and corner gently.
It is recommended to visit a VinFast Service Center as soon as possible.
Spare Tire Replacement (if equipped)
Before replacing a flat tire with the spare tire, follow the instructions below:
Ensure the vehicle is at a safe location that does not affect normal traffic and work can be undertaken safely. Place the vehicle in Park (P) and turn the vehicle OFF.
Turn on the hazard warning lights and place the warning triangle (if equipped) at an appropriate distance in front and behind the vehicle as a safety precaution.
To Remove the Spare Tire:
Lift the rear cargo floor cover   by pulling up on the strap.
Unscrew the wheel retainer  .
Remove the spare tire   from the rear cargo compartment.
WARNING
While driving with the spare tire, drive slowly, avoid sharp cornering, avoid sudden acceleration, abrupt maneuvering and sudden braking to ensure safety of the driver and the passengers.
The spare tire is not designed for driving at high speeds. Failure to observe this precaution may lead to an accident causing death or serious injury.
CAUTION
The spare tire provided with the vehicle is for TEMPORARY USE ONLY. Do not use the spare tire for continuous driving.
Do not drive the vehicle above the indicated maximum speed shown on the spare tire.
NOTE
Place the flat tire in a safe & convenient position, so that the flat tire can be replaced or repaired easily.
To Fit the Spare Tire:
Remove the jack, crowbar, wrench, and spare tire from the rear cargo compartment.
Remove the wheel cover (if equipped). To remove the wheel cover, see >   Parts and Accessories  .
Loosen the wheel studs: Use the wrench   to turn the wheel studs to the left (anticlockwise direction) until they can be turned by hand. Do not remove the wheel’s studs entirely at this stage.
Look at the bottom of the vehicle and locate the jacking point closest to the wheel that needs to be replaced.
Connect the crowbar   to the jack  , then connect the wrench   to the crowbar  . Grasp the crowbar and turn the wrench clockwise to raise the vehicle until the tires leave the road surface.
Remove the wheel studs: Remove all wheel studs entirely then remove the wheel and tire assembly.
Wipe off the dirt on the wheel mounting surface and the brake hub with a clean cloth.
Install the spare tire and ensure the holes on spare tire line up with the holes on the hub.
Temporarily fix the wheel studs. Fit all five wheel studs and torque by hand until snug. This will prevent the tire from falling. Remove dirt and foreign matter from the hub of the wheel.
Grasp the crowbar   and turn the wrench   in a anticlockwise direction to lower the vehicle to the ground.
Tighten the wheel studs. Use the wrench to turn the wheel studs to the right (clockwise direction) according to the order indicated in the figure shown above. Double check each wheel stud. Tightening torque: 32±3 Nm.
Check tire pressure. If tire pressure is too high or too low, drive slowly to the nearest service station and adjust them to the recommended pressures. Be sure to replace the valve cap after checking tire pressures to avoid any air leaks from occurring.
Place the jack and other tools to the designated location in the rear cargo compartment.
WARNING
Do not exceed the vehicle’s maximum load carrying capacity when using a spare ﻿tire.
Do not use a compact spare tire for long periods. Replace or repair the original tire as soon as possible.
Do not lift the vehicle on a jack unless all the passengers have safely exited the vehicle.
Always lift the vehicle on a jack where the surface is firm and level, and ensure the jack is stable.
Position the jack only at the designated jacking points on the vehicle. Failure to comply may cause the jack to slip and cause serious injuries.
Do not work under a raised vehicle.
Use only the factory provided jack to lift the vehicle.
Do not touch the disc brakes or the area around the brakes as they can be extremely hot.
Jump-starting
If the 12V battery is discharged, the vehicle may be jump-started by another vehicle’s battery and jumper cables or by using a low voltage power supply such as a portable jump-starter. If jump-starting from another vehicle, follow the other vehicles manufacturing guidelines for jump-starting.
WARNING
Always read and follow instructions when handling a battery to avoid serious injury or death.
Wear correct personal protective equipment (PPE) when handling the battery. Failure in following the warning can cause serious injury or death.
Keep all forms of smoke, flames, and sparks away from the battery at all times. Failure to follow the warning can cause serious injury or death.
Do not allow the jumper cables to make contact with each other or any metal surface other than the correct terminals.
Ensure your vehicle is not connected to a high voltage charger when performing a jump-start. Failure to do so can cause serious injury or death.
The vehicle should not be used to jump start another vehicle as this could cause significant damage to your vehicle.
Do not try to jump start your vehicle if the outside temperatures are extremely low.
Connecting the jumper cables incorrectly can cause damage to the vehicle and potentially lead to a fire or explosion.
NOTE
Always ensure that only a 12V source is used to jump start the battery.
If your vehicle has no 12V power, proceed with the following:
Ensure the vehicle is OFF and in Park (P).
Open the hood, see >   Front and Rear Compartments > Front Hood  .
Locate the 12V battery by removing the cover plate  .
Open the positive protection cover of the 12V battery.
Connect the red jumper cable to the positive (+) terminal of the vehicle’s battery.
Connect the other end of the red jumper cable to the positive (+) terminal of the good battery.
Connect the black jumper cable to the negative (-) terminal of the good battery.
Connect the other end of black jumper cable to the negative (-) ground point of the vehicle’s battery.
Start the vehicle with the good battery, and then proceed to power on your vehicle.
NOTE
If your vehicle does not start, please contact Roadside Assistance or have the vehicle checked by an ﻿authorized VinFast Service Center﻿.
For safe battery disposal, please refer to your country’s battery disposal and recycling laws.
Disconnecting jumper cables process:
Disconnect the black jumper cable from the negative (-) ground point of the vehicle’s battery.
Disconnect the other end of the black negative (-) jumper cable from the good battery.
Disconnect the red jumper cable from the positive (+) terminal of the vehicle’s battery.
Disconnect the other end of the red jumper cable from the positive (+) terminals on the good battery.
Towing (EV)
If the vehicle breaks down and towing is necessary, it is recommended to have any towing conducted by a professional towing service. When towing, front wheels must not be in contact with the ground. The spinning wheels enable the regenerative braking system to generate electricity, which cannot be managed correctly while the vehicle is turned OFF. This may lead to over-heating of the system components.
WARNING
If the vehicle has an electrical fault, it may pose as a safety hazard. Seek immediate assistance and keep away from the vehicle.
Do not transport the vehicle in a position where the wheels can spin, this may lead to significant damage and overheating of the operating systems. In rare cases of extreme overheating, it may cause the surrounding components to ignite.
CAUTION
Do not transport the vehicle using any method that is not recommended by VinFast.
Preparing Vehicle to be Towed
There are two tow eye attachment points. One in the front bumper and another in rear bumper. A tow eye is provided with the vehicle, and it is stored in the toolbox in rear cargo compartment.
Before towing make sure to release EPB and selected N gear.
WARNING
The vehicle is equipped with high voltage components (see >   High Voltage Components  ) that may be damaged in the event of a collision. It is important to assume these components are energized prior to transporting the vehicle.
Always follow high voltage safety precautions (wearing protective gear, etc.) until emergency response professionals have evaluated the vehicle and have confirmed that all high voltage systems are no longer operational. Failure to comply may result in a serious injury.
Tow mode (if available)
Tow Mode can be activated only when all of the following conditions are met:
Gear is in P (Park)
Brake pedal is pressed
A valid key fob is present inside the vehicle
Low voltage battery is in normal condition
To activate Tow Mode:
Tap  App Library    >  Service App    >  Tow Mode .
Tap  Start .
Tap  Activate  to activate Tow Mode.
To deactivate Tow Mode manually
Change gear to NOT P (Park).
Or, Tap  Exit Tow Mode .
Using the Tow Eye/Hook﻿:
Open the liftgate and raise the cargo floor cover from the tab. The tow eye is located under the rear storage floor compartment.
How to fit Front Tow eye﻿:
Locate the tow eye cover   on the front bumper, Press and hold the center of the cover to create a gap, then use a plastic trim removal tool to disengage the retaining clips and remove the tow eye cover.
Remove the tow eye cover to find the tow eye mounting point.
Install the tow eye   by turning it clockwise into the tow hole until it is fully secured.
Rotate counterclockwise to remove the tow eye  , reinstall the tow eye cover  .
How to fit Rear Tow eye﻿:
Find the tow eye cover   on the rear bumper, use tool to pry open the top position of the cover outward to release it.
Remove the tow eye cover to find the tow eye mounting point.
Install the tow eye   by turning it clockwise into the tow hole until it is fully secured.
Rotate counterclockwise to remove the tow eye  , reinstall the tow eye cover  .
CAUTION
Ensure the tow eye is properly secured before towing the vehicle.
Approved Towing Methods
VinFast recommends getting professional help for towing and following the correct
towing procedure to prevent damage to the vehicle.
A flatbed truck or similar recovery vehicle is recommended when transporting the vehicle. Follow the tow eye attachment instruction described above prior to winching the vehicle. Enable the electronic parking brake has been released and the vehicle is in Neutral (N), pull the vehicle slowly onto the flatbed truck, turn off vehicle.
The vehicle’s wheels must be tied down to ensure the vehicle is secured properly on the truck bed.
CAUTION
Do not secure the vehicle using tie-down straps to the chassis, suspension, or other parts of the vehicle’s body as this may damage the vehicle.
Do not place tie-down straps over the vehicle’s body or through the wheels.
Ensure that the metal parts of the tie down do not come in contact with the vehicle’s paint.
If the vehicle cannot be transported on a flatbed truck and a normal recovery truck is to be used, lift the wheels onto dollies or tire skates to ensure that none of the wheels touch the ground. It is recommended to tow the vehicle facing forward so that the front wheels are lifted and the rear wheels are on dollies or ﻿tire skates. This method should only be used for a maximum distance of 50 km and must not exceed the manufacturer’s speed rating for the dollies or tire skates.
In special situations such as battery thermal events, collisions affecting the battery, or vehicle submersion, rescue personnel must be trained in high-voltage electrical safety and be fully familiar with the safety procedures and handling methods for high-voltage systems before performing any rescue operation

## Contact

Customer Care
(Viet Nam market) VinFast Customer Care representatives are available Monday to Sunday 24 hours a day to assist with any of your vehicle needs. They can be contacted at:
Hotline : 1900 23 23 89
(Philippines market) For more details, please contact the nearest service center or visit VinFast’s official website:   https://vinfastauto.ph/
Reporting Safety Defects
Your vehicle is fitted with electronic control units. Data is processed and generated by control units based on inputs from sensors. Your vehicle’s control units are used to keep the vehicle safe, support you while driving (driver assistance systems), and to enable convenience and infotainment functions.
In certain circumstances, the data generated or processed by control units can be considered personal data under the law. Depending on the vehicle data available, this data may reveal information about your driving behavior, your location, or your route, as well as your usage patterns.
For more information about VinFast’s personal data protection policy, please visit:   https://vinfastauto.com/vn_vi/dieu-khoan-phap-ly   or scan QR code below:

# Additional Information


## Reference

Event Data Recorder (EDR)
This vehicle is equipped with an Event Data Recorder (EDR). The EDR records certain vehicle data when a collision or collision-like event occurs. The recorded data can help understand how the vehicle systems operated before, during, and after the event.
The EDR is not intended to record data during normal driving. It records data only when the vehicle detects an event that meets the recording conditions.
Recorded Data
The EDR may record information such as:
Vehicle operating status.
Seat belt and restraint system status.
Brake and accelerator pedal input.
Vehicle speed and movement information.
Airbag or pretensioner deployment status.
Relevant driver assistance system status, if available.
The recorded data may be used for event analysis, vehicle safety research, product quality improvement, and other permitted purposes.
Data Access
EDR data can be read only with suitable equipment and authorized access to the vehicle or EDR system. The vehicle manufacturer, service provider, law enforcement authority, or other authorized party may read the data when permitted.
EDR data may be accessed or disclosed with the vehicle owner’s permission, in response to an official request, for legal proceedings, or as otherwise permitted for vehicle safety, service, research, or quality improvement purposes.
When data is used for research or quality improvement, it may be processed in a way that does not identify the vehicle owner or user, where applicable.
Privacy
The EDR is not designed to record personal information such as name, gender, age, or regular trip history. However, EDR data may be combined with other information during an investigation to understand the circumstances of an event.
Transmitters and Radio Certification Compliance
The radio transmitters and other radio equipment installed in the vehicle complies with applicable radio and electromagnetic compatibility requirements in the markets where the vehicle is sold. Factory-installed radio equipment must be used in its original approved condition.
Do not remove, modify, shield, or replace radio equipment, antennas, control units, or related software without authorization, and do not install additional radio transmitting equipment without approval. Unauthorized changes may interfere with vehicle systems, wireless communication, and related functions, and may cause the equipment or vehicle to no longer meet applicable requirements.
Damage or malfunction caused by unauthorized modification, improper installation, intentional interference, or misuse of radio equipment may not be covered by the vehicle warranty.
Radio functions may be affected by surrounding conditions, other electronic devices, signal coverage, or local restrictions. If a radio function does not operate normally, move the vehicle or device away from possible interference sources and try again.

## Privacy

Welcome Screen
The Welcome screen is displayed when the user gets in car for the first time to recommend users set up Primary Profile.
The following options are available:
Tap  Admin  to go to set up a new profile (Primary Profile) flow.
Tap  Drive as Guest  to log in Guest Profile.
Tap  Language  icon at the top right corner of the infotainment screen to change language of the setup process at the beginning.
Privacy Settings
Privacy Settings allows you to manage consent for Data Sharing and Location Data Sharing. This feature is only applicable for markets that require data privacy consent.
Data Sharing
Data Sharing allows transmission and processing of data between your vehicle, VinFast, and third-party providers so that connected services can operate properly.
Location Data Sharing
Location Data Sharing allows location data to be used by services that require it, such as navigation or roadside assistance.
To Access Privacy Settings
If an app or function requires Data Sharing or Location Data Sharing consent, a message or dialog appears. Tap  Go to Privacy  to open Privacy Settings.
Note
For Primary/Secondary profiles, Privacy settings are disabled.
If the current profile is not linked to a VinFast Account, the profile must be linked on the Privacy Settings interface before accessing and customizing Privacy Settings.
To enable/disable Data Sharing
Use the toggle button to turn this feature On/Off.
Tap  Confirm .
Note
eSIM  and Wi-Fi are disabled unless data sharing is enabled.
Wi-Fi not available when data sharing is OFF.
All connected services will be disabled without data sharing. Only basic vehicle features that don’t require data transmission are available.
A confirmation dialog will display when user turns off Data Sharing.
To enable/disable Location Data Sharing
Toggle  Data Sharing  On.
Tap the checkbox to turn this feature On/Off.
Tap  Confirm .
Note
Location Data Sharing can only be enabled when Data Sharing is enabled.
A confirmation dialog will display when user turns off Location Data Sharing.

## Roles

Roles Definition
The vehicle supports different profile roles, including Primary Profile, Secondary Profile, Custom Profile, Guest Profile, and Valet Profile. The total number of user profiles is limited to 11 profiles.
Admin
Admin is the default factory profile, named  VinFast . It is not connected with a Cloud account.
Admin has full permission, the same as Primary Profile. Admin will be replaced by Primary Profile later.
Primary Profile
Primary Profile is linked to a VinFast Primary Account.
The Primary Profile has full permission to use vehicle functions. The account must be created on VinFast Cloud first.
Secondary Profile
Secondary Profile is linked to a VinFast Secondary Account.
The account must be created on VinFast Cloud and approved by the Primary driver first.
Custom Profile
Custom Profile is created on the vehicle and is not linked to VinFast Cloud.
Custom Profile can be created by the Primary driver, Secondary driver, Custom profile, or Guest profile.
Guest Profile
Guest Profile is the default profile of the vehicle when no other profile is launched.
Guest Profile has no personal statistics or ergonomics data.
Valet Profile
Valet Profile has very limited functions and is locked by a Valet PIN. Users must enter the correct Valet PIN to exit Valet Profile.
Note
For markets with data privacy consent, users must confirm the link to a VinFast Account on the infotainment screen first.
The vehicle supports 1 Primary Profile, 1 Secondary Profile, 7 Custom Profiles, 1 Guest Profile, and 1 Valet Profile.

## Vehicle Profiles

Vehicle Profile Definition
A vehicle profile stores user preferences and personalized settings. When the appropriate profile is selected, the vehicle automatically recalls the saved settings linked to that profile.
Examples of vehicle settings that may be saved against a profile:
Sound Settings
Language and System Settings
Device Connection Settings
Light Settings
Navigation Favorites
Creating a Profile
Using this feature you can create a profile unique to your likes and preferences. The vehicle will automatically recall the saved settings when the appropriate profile is selected.
To create a new Primary Profile:
User can set up primary profile on the Welcome screen during first-time onboarding.
Choose an appropriate language and tap  Admin .
Agree to the Connected Services Terms & Conditions and the Connected Services Privacy Policy before verifying VinFast Account.
Enter the primary account email in the text field.
Tap  Link .
Set up Data Privacy.
Follow the on-screen instructions to set up Security.
NOTE
During the new profile setup process, user can tap Home button to exit to Home screen.
To create a new Secondary Profile:
Tap  Profile Name  >  Create New .
Or, Tap  Create New  in Profile Management  .
Tap  Secondary .
Agree to the Connected Services Terms & Conditions and the Connected Services Privacy Policy before verifying VinFast Account.
Enter the secondary account email in the text field.
Tap  Link .
Set up Data Privacy.
Follow the on-screen instructions to set up Security.
To create a new Custom Profile:
Tap  Profile Name  >  Create New .
Or, Tap  Create New  in Profile Management  .
Tap  New Profile .
Enter a name in the text field.
Tap  Save .
Follow the on-screen instructions to set up Security.