============================================================
VINFAST OWNER MANUAL (HƯỚNG DẪN SỬ DỤNG SẢN PHẨM XE VINFAST)
Car Model: VF8
Version: 2024
Language: EN
Source URL: https://om.vinfastauto.com/
============================================================


# Introduction


## Owner Manual

Introduction
Congratulations and thank you for choosing the VF 8.
This Owner’s Manual describes all the features and operations of your new VinFast vehicle and contains important maintenance and safety related information designed to keep you safe and informed throughout ownership.
The information contained in this manual is specific to your vehicle however certain descriptions of features, functions and displays may not apply depending on your chosen vehicle configuration, market region or software version.
Thoroughly familiarize yourself with the contents of this Owner’s Manual prior to operating your vehicle.
Owner’s Manual Version: VF8_22-26﻿_VN_ENG_﻿3.5.1 [NewUI]
Important Note - High Voltage Battery
The VinFast VF 8 should only be operated with a VinFast genuine battery or a battery supplied by a VinFast authorized supplier.
VinFast, its authorized battery suppliers, the battery owner (if applicable), and their representatives, shall bear no responsibility for any damages or losses to the customer caused by the use of any non-VinFast battery in the vehicle or for not following the battery usage guidelines found in the Vehicle Owner’s Manual.
The use of any non-VinFast battery in the vehicle may void the VinFast Manufacturer’s Warranty and the warranty coverage for the vehicle. The failure to allow VinFast to replace the Battery in the vehicle, or to use, maintain and service the battery in accordance with instructions provided by VinFast (including the Battery Usage, Charging and Storing Guidelines), also may void the VinFast Manufacturer’s Warranty.
If the customer chooses the battery leasing option, the customer shall sign a battery leasing contract with the owner of the battery.
If the customer breaches any obligation of the Battery Lease Agreement, they agree that the battery owner can take possession of the battery by any method permitted by law including:
Limiting the level of charge;
Utilization of geolocation technology in the battery or vehicle to locate the Battery for purposes of repossession; and
Pursue any other remedies permitted by law.
If the customer chooses to resell the vehicle, or any other case that might lead to the transfer of vehicle title, the customer shall be responsible for:
Informing the purchaser that the battery is leased property owned by a third party and not the customer; and
Shall cooperate with the battery owner to ensure a seamless transfer of the battery at the same time the vehicle is transferred.
Owner Manual Information
This Owner’s Manual will familiarize you with all the features, functions, equipment and maintenance needs of your vehicle.
An initial overview of the vehicle is covered in the next section and provides the name and location of the key exterior and interior features and components.
Warning, Caution and Notes
The Owner’s Manual contains safety precautions and operating procedures. Failure to follow these safety warnings and instructions may lead to serious injury or even death.
To highlight content of importance, the following message formats will be shown:
WARNING
Critical information, often involving safety related content that if not followed could result in death or serious injury.
CAUTION
Important information relating to a feature, function or situation, which if ignored, could result in damage to your vehicle.
NOTE
Key points of useful information.
It is recommended that you have your vehicle inspected by an authorized service center for all intermediate and major repairs. It is essential that the vehicle is repaired in accordance with VinFast specifications. Owners can perform minor self fix tasks if suggested by this owner manual or in vehicle alerts page. For all self fix tasks clear instructions will be provided. If these instructions are read and still remain unclear, please contact VinFast Service Center prior to proceeding.
Using the Printed Manual
A printed Owner’s Manual is provided with your vehicle and is placed in the glove box at the time of vehicle delivery.
Using the Digital Manual
An online interactive version of the owner manual can be accessed on any compatible Web-browser, as well as on the VinFast App. An integrated version of this owner’s manual is also available to view in vehicle on the infotainment touchscreen.
To access the Integrated Owner’s Manual in your VF 8, follow the steps below:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.﻿
Tap  Owner’s Manual   .﻿
Use navigation buttons and search functionality to locate required content.
Applicable Content & Images
The information and specifications contained in the VF 8 owner’s manual are accurate at the time of publication. Some functions described in this Owner’s Manual may not be applicable to your vehicle level, activated or available at the time of delivery including applications embedded in the infotainment system or the VinFast App. Content is continuously being refined and software updates will often be released to improve the user experience and functionality of your vehicle.
Any major updates made after the print deadline will be reflected in the digital Owner’s Manual that can be accessed and viewed at   https://om.vinfastauto.com/  .
The illustrations and images provided in this manual are for demonstration purposes only. Depending on the vehicle variant, customization options, software version and market region, the information displayed on the touchscreen in your vehicle may appear differently to what is shown in the Owner’s Manual. All directions referenced in the content such as, left, right, front and rear are based on the vehicles direction of travel.
VinFast reserves the right to change specifications, design or equipment at any time without notice and without incurring any obligation.
Copyright & Trademarks
All rights reserved. All content within this Owner’s Manual is subject to copyright and other intellectual property rights of VinFast Trading and Production Joint Stock Company. This documentation should not be copied, modified or reused in anyway without prior written permission.

# Overview


## Vehicle Overview

Electric Vehicle Ownership
Your vehicle is powered by electricity and as a result some of the vehicle’s systems and operating characteristics are different from a vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine.
It is important to carefully review this entire owner’s manual for this reason. The vehicle does not require and it is not capable of using gasoline like a vehicle powered by a traditional internal combustion engine.
The vehicle uses two types of batteries. One is a 12-volt (low voltage) battery that is the same as the battery in vehicles that operate on gasoline powered engines, the other is the Li-ion battery which may be referred to as the High Voltage (HV) or Electric Vehicle (EV) battery in this Owner Manual. The 12-volt battery provides power to the vehicle systems and features such as the infotainment system, supplemental restraint systems, headlights and windshield wipers.
The vehicle uses energy stored in the lithium ion (Li-ion) battery. The vehicle’s Li-ion battery must be charged with electricity before the vehicle can be driven. As the vehicle operates, the Li-ion battery gradually discharges. If the Li-ion battery becomes completely discharged, the vehicle will not operate until it is re-charged.
The high voltage Li-ion battery or EV Battery provides power to the electric motor that drives the vehicle. The vehicle must be plugged in for the Li-ion battery to be charged.
Your vehicle is also equipped with a regenerative braking system which allows the vehicle to convert kinetic energy into electrical energy, which is used to recharge the battery increasing overall range.
This vehicle is considered to be an environmentally friendly vehicle because it does not emit exhaust gases, such as carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxide when in operation.
Exterior Overview
Wheels and Tires
Wheels and Tires >   Wheels and Tires
Charge port
Charging Instructions >   Charging Instructions
Front wipers
Wipers and Washers >   Front Wipers
Door handle
Doors >   Exterior Door
Sunroof*
Windows >   Panoramic Sunroof
Antenna
Front Hood
Front and Rear Compartments >   Front Hood
Front Windshield Camera*
Driving Aids >   Lane Assist Systems
Daytime Running Lights (DRL)
Exterior Lighting >   Daytime Running Lights (DRL)
Side Mirrors
Mirrors >   Side Mirrors   &
Exterior Lighting >   Turn Signals
Head Lights
Exterior Lighting >   Exterior Lighting - Front
Front Parking Sensors
Park Assist >   Front & Rear Parking Assist
Radar*
Cruise Control >  Adaptive  Cruise Control
Fog Lamps*
Exterior Lighting >   Fog Lights
Front Camera
Park Assist >   Surround View Monitoring System
Rear Wiper
Wipers and Washers >  Rear  Wipers
Liftgate
Front and Rear Compartments >   Liftgate
Rear Fog Lights*
Exterior Lighting >   Fog Lights
Rear Parking Sensors
Park Assist >   Front & Rear Parking Assist
Foot Kick Sensor*
Front and Rear Compartments >   Liftgate
Rear cameras
Park Assist >   Surround View Monitoring System
Tail Lights
Exterior Lighting >   Exterior Lighting - Rear (Tail Lights)
Centre High Mount Stop Lamp
Exterior Lighting >   Exterior Lighting - Rear (Tail Lights)
*if equipped
Interior Overview
Power Window Switches
Windows >   Window Controls
Interior Door Handles
Doors >   Interior Door
Indicator and Trip Computer Stalk
Exterior Lighting >   Turn Signals   and
Economy & Environment >   Trip History
Horn
Driver Monitoring Camera*
Driving Aids >   Driver Monitoring System
Wiper and Washer Stalk
Driving >   Wipers and Washers
Rear View Mirror
Mirrors >   Rear View Mirror
Head Up Display
Displays, Connections and Climate >   Head Up Display
MHU Display
Touchscreen >   Touchscreen Overview
Glove Box
Storage >   Glove Box
Air Vents
Climate Control System >    Air Vents
Wireless Charger*
Phone & Projection >   Wireless Charger
Cup Holder
Storage >   Cup Holders
Hazard Switch
Exterior Lighting >   Hazard Warning Flashers
Central Locking Switch
Keys and Locks >    Central Locking Overview
Park Brake Switch
Drive Systems >   Electric Parking Brake
Steering Wheel Switches - Driving Assistance Controls
Steering Wheel >   Functions
Volume Knob
Armrest
Storage >   Centre Console
Steering Wheel
Driving >   Steering Wheel
Steering Wheel Switches - Multimedia and Call Controls
Steering Wheel >   Functions
Door Pocket Storage
Storage >   Door Pocket Storage
Seats and Seat Belts
Seats, Restraints & Safety >   Seats   ,
Seats, Restraints & Safety >   Seat Belts
Sun Visor & Vanity Mirror
Mirrors >   Sun Visor & Vanity Mirror
SOS (E-call) Button
Connected Services >   Emergency Call
Roof Lights
Interior Lighting >   Roof Lights
Arm Rest and Cup Holders
Storage >   Cup Holders
Reading Lights
Interior Lighting >   Reading Lights
Rear Power Window Switch
Windows >   Window Controls
Door Pocket Storage
Storage >   Door Pocket Storage
USB Sockets
Phone & Projection >   USB Ports & Power Outlets
Rear Seats
Seats, Restraints & Safety >   Seats
Grab Handles
Charging Overview
Charging Port Door
Charging Instructions >   Charging Instructions
Charge Indicator (If available)
Charging Port
Charging Handle
Charging Instructions >   Charging Equipment

# Openings & Compartments


## Keys and Locks

Central Locking Overview
The vehicle is equipped with a central locking system that allows all doors and tailgate to be locked and unlocked at once. Central locking and unlocking of the vehicle can be accomplished by any of the following:
Vehicle key fob
Keyless entry (ensure the key fob is within 1 m / 3 ft of the driver’s door)
Mechanical key
Interior central locking switch
Remote locking feature within the VinFast App (if available)
Details on each of the above features can be found further in this section.
Interior Central Locking Button
The central locking button   is located in the center console. The central locking button locks or unlocks all doors and the liftgate when pressed. The button will illuminate to indicate the vehicle is locked.
Vehicle Locking Settings
Door unlock when vehicle unlock:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen screen.﻿
Tap  Settings   > Vehicle Settings > Doors.
Toggle door unlock when vehicle unlock. Tap to  Driver door/All doors .﻿﻿﻿﻿
NOTE
In the event of a collision, the central locking system will automatically unlock all doors and the tailgate to assist passengers in exiting the vehicle.
Door unlock when vehicle parked:
When the gear is changed to Park (P), the selected doors will unlock automatically.
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen screen.﻿
Tap  Settings     > Vehicle Settings > Doors .﻿
Toggle door unlock when parked. Tap to  On/Off .﻿
Speed Sensitive Auto Door Lock/Unlock﻿:
Speed sensitive auto door lock will lock all doors automatically when the vehicle speed exceeds 6 mph (10 km/h).
Walk Away lock (if available):
Automatically locks the doors when the driver walks away from the vehicle with the key fob.
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen screen.
Tap  Settings   > Vehicle Settings > Doors.
Toggle walk away lock. Tap to  On/Off.
Activation Conditions - The Walk-away Lock feature will only operate when all of the following conditions are satisfied:
The keyfob is fully functional.
Vehicle is in P mode (P).
The driver’s seat belt is not fastened.
The vehicle speed is below 3 km/h.
All doors, the trunk, and the hood are closed.
How It Works
After the driver’s door has been opened and then closed, the system will start searching for the keyfob.
If the keyfob remains within the passive entry detection range (~1m around vehicle outside driver door), the turn signal will flash to indicate that the Walk-away Lock feature is ready.
A countdown timer will then start. When the keyfob moves outside the detection range, the system will automatically lock all doors and the trunk.
NOTE
Always carry the keyfob with you when leaving the vehicle.
In certain situations, such as signal interference, the feature may be delayed or may not activate.
Visual and audible feedback signals confirm that the vehicle has been locked.
The Walk-away Lock feature will only be activated when the driver’s door has been opened and then closed.
Lock/Unlock Feedback:
When unlocking the vehicle via a key fob you can select the desired feedback in the form of Light, Horn, or Both. You can disable this feature by selecting OFF.
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen screen.
Tap  Settings   > Vehicle Settings > Doors.
Select a desired feedback setting- Lock / Unlock Feedback  (Off / Light / Horn / Both).
Other Locking Related Features
Automatic re-lock function
Within 30 seconds of being unlocked, the vehicle will automatically lock all its doors if a door has not been opened.
Collision detection unlock
If the vehicle detects a collision event, all doors will automatically unlock. This assists in providing improved access to or exit from the vehicle in an emergency situation.
WARNING
If a door is not fully closed it may suddenly open while driving, potentially causing an accident leading to serious injury or death.
When exiting the vehicle, the key fob should be taken with the user. If the key fob remains in the vehicle and children are present, they can start the vehicle or operate the windows which can cause serious injuries or even death.
Key Fob Overview
The vehicle is supplied with remote key fob. The key fob is paired to the vehicle and uses Radio Frequency (RF) technology to wirelessly perform the following vehicle functions:
Locking and Unlocking doors and liftgate
Opening the liftgate
Starting the vehicle
Locating the vehicle via horn activation
Number
Function
Action
Open/Close Liftgate
Long Press
Unlock the driver’s door
Short Press
Unlock all doors
Double Press
Open all windows
Long press
Lock all doors
Short Press
Close all windows
Long press
Find My Car/Panic Alarm
Short Press
For a description of all key fob functions, See >   Remote Key Functions
NOTE
The vehicle key fob should remain with the vehicle when being driven. If the key fob is removed the vehicle will still be functional and can be driven but will not be able to be restarted if powered off.
CAUTION
Protect the key from impact, high temperatures, and damage from liquids. Avoid contact with solvents, waxes and abrasive cleaners.
WARNING
When exiting the vehicle, the key fob should be taken with the user. If the key fob remains in the vehicle and children are present, they can start the vehicle or operate the windows which can cause serious injuries or even death.
Key Fob Precautions
The vehicle key fob communicates with the vehicle via a series of RF antennas. Key fob communication with the vehicle may be impacted by the following:
The key fob battery is discharged.
The key fob is outside of the vehicle antenna operating range.
Another vehicle’s smart key is being operated close to the vehicle.
Interference caused by signals from powerful radio transmitters, mobile telephone or electronic devices.
Interference as a result of nearby metallic objects.
WARNING
If a vehicle occupant has a pacemaker or other electrical medical implant/device fitted, they should maintain a safe distance as prescribed by their medical professional from the antennas in the vehicle. This is to avoid any possible interference between the vehicle antenna and the medical implant/device. See approximate vehicle Key Fob antenna locations below.
Key Fob Battery
The expected key fob battery life is approximately 2 years. The battery will slowly deplete over time even when the key is not being used. The following symptoms may exist to indicate your key fob battery is low:
Wireless remote functions will not work or have reduced performance
The LED indicator will flash on the key fob
A vehicle alert will be displayed on the touchscreen
To Replace the key fob battery:
Remove the mechanical key by sliding the release tab   on the back of the key fob then removing the mechanical key   from the fob.
Use a small flat tool to gently open the back cover of the key fob.
Remove the internal battery cover by first twisting anti-clockwise then pulling the tab.
Replace the old battery and ensure the new battery is in the correct orientation (Battery Number: CR 2032).
Reinstall the back internal battery cover, press down and rotate clockwise to lock.
Reinstall the key fob back cover ensuring it clicks into place.
Insert the mechanical key back into its slot.
CAUTION
Do not touch any part of the key fob circuitry when replacing the battery as static electricity could damage the remote key.
Ensure the replacement battery matches the same make and model as recommended by the manufacturer. Use of an incorrect batteries may cause key fob malfunction or battery explosion.
Do not dispose of batteries in household waste. Dispose of used batteries in accordance with local laws and regulations.
Do not crush, cut or burn a battery. Do not expose a battery to extreme environmental conditions.
WARNING
Keep batteries away from the children as they contain hazardous chemicals and should not be ingested. If a battery is swallowed it can cause severe internal burns and can lead to death. Seek immediate medical advise if a battery is ingested.
NOTE
If the key fob is damaged or does not function correctly even after replacing the battery, contact a VinFast Service Center.
Key Fob Replacement
In case of accidental loss or damage, a replacement Key Fob will be required to be paired to the vehicle via VinFast Service Center.
Remote Key Functions
Remote Lock/Unlock
The vehicle can be locked and unlocked using buttons on the key fob.
To unlock the doors via the key fob:
Single press the unlock button   for the driver’s door.
Double press the unlock button   for all doors.
N OTE
Door Unlock can be configured to unlock all doors with a single press. See >  V ehicle Settings - Doors   .
To lock all doors via the key fob:
Single press   to lock﻿.
WARNING
Before driving ensure all doors are closed and locked.
If a door is not fully closed it may suddenly open while driving, potentially causing an accident leading to serious injury or death.
Passive Lock and Unlock
The passive lock/unlock feature allows the vehicle to be conveniently accessed without removing the key from your pocket or bag. After pressing a button on the outside driver’s door handle the central locking system will verify that a valid key fob is present and if so will lock or unlock the vehicle.
To Unlock the vehicle via door handle button:
Press the exterior door handle button   momentarily to unlock the doors. From the Vehicle settings menu this can be configured to:
Unlock Drivers Door only OR,
Unlock All Doors.
Press and hold to lower all windows until the button is released or the power windows are fully open.
NOTE
When using the passive locking function, the vehicle needs to be in Park (P) gear and all doors must be fully closed.
To Lock the vehicle via the door handle button:
Single press   for all doors.
Press and hold to raise all windows until the button is released or windows are fully closed.
NOTE
For the vehicle to recognize the presence of the key fob and activate the passive functions, the key needs to be within a range of approximately 1m from the driver’s door.
Lock/Unlock Feedback:
When locking and unlocking the vehicle, feedback will be provided via one of the following configurable options:
Lights only
Horn only
Both Lights and Horn
Off
The vehicle exterior mirrors may also be set to automatically fold and unfold with vehicle locking. See > Settings >   Vehicle Settings - Mirrors .
To configure lock/unlock feedback:
See > Settings >   Vehicle Settings - Door.
NOTE
If the lock switch is pressed and any door is not fully closed the vehicle will not be locked. The turn signal will also not blink indicating for all doors to be checked.
Other Remote Key Functions
In addition to turning your vehicle on and off, the remote key has the following additional convenience functions:
Comfort Mode
When the vehicle is in a stationary position, pressing the Unlock button on the key fob for more than 1.5 seconds will open all the windows on the vehicle.
Pressing the Lock button on the key fob for more than 1.5 seconds will close all the windows on the vehicle
Forgotten key reminder
When the driver door is closed and a key is left in the vehicle, a message will appear on the instrument display and an audible tone will sound to alert the driver. If the key is left in the car, the doors cannot be locked.
Find your car
When the vehicle is locked and in a stationary position, press the “Find Vehicle” button to activate the vehicle horn and indicators to assist in locating the vehicle. This function is available when the key fob is within approximately 15m of the vehicle.
Panic Alarm
When the vehicle is locked and in a stationary position, press and hold the “Panic Alarm” button for approximately 3 seconds to sound the panic alarm. This function is available when the key fob is within approximately 15m of the vehicle.
Automatic re-lock function
If a door is not opened after the vehicle has been unlocked, the vehicle will automatically re-lock after 30 seconds.
Collision unlock function
If a collision or accident occurs and the airbags deploy, all doors will automatically unlock. This assists in providing improved access to vehicle occupants for emergency services.
Mechanical Key
Overview
The mechanical key is integrated into the vehicle key fob. The mechanical key can be used to unlock or lock the vehicle doors manually in the event the key fob or vehicle 12V battery is drained. ﻿The mechanical key can also be used to set the rear door child locks. See >   Child Rear Door Lock.
To release the mechanical key:
On the vehicle key fob, slide the latch   to unlock the key.
Pull the mechanical key   from the key fob.
To unlock the vehicle with the mechanical key:
Insert the key into the key cylinder of the driver door  .
Rotate anti clockwise to unlock the door﻿  .
Open the driver door and place the key fob in the cupholder.
Press the brake pedal to disarm the anti theft alarm (if available).
CAUTION
When the mechanical key is used to unlock the vehicle, the anti-theft alarm will trigger immediately.
To lock the vehicle with the mechanical key:
Insert the key into the key cylinder of the driver door  .
Rotate clockwise to lock the door﻿  .
NOTE
When the mechanical key is used all doors will be locked or unlocked at the same time unless the vehicle 12V battery is drained.

## Doors

Exterior Doors
To open the vehicle via the exterior door handles:
Ensure the vehicle is unlocked via the key fob or passive entry button﻿.
Pull the handle outwards while also pulling open the door.
Passive Entry/Exit ﻿via door handle:
Passive Entry/Exit allows the locking or unlocking of all the doors without using the key fob. The exterior driver’s side door handle consists of a button that is used for locking and unlocking the door. To use the passive entry function the key fob must be within 1 meter of the driver’s door.
To unlock the vehicle using Passive Entry:
Press the exterior door handle button   momentarily to unlock the doors. Depending on the Vehicle settings, this can be configured to:
Unlock the Driver’s Door only OR,
Unlock All Doors.
Press and hold the exterior door handle button   to lower all windows until the button is released or the windows are fully open.
For more information see Settings >   Vehicle Settings - Doors  .
To lock the vehicle using Passive Exit:
Press the exterior door handle button   to lock all doors (including the rear doors)﻿.
WARNING
Before driving, make sure that all doors are fully closed and locked.
If a door is not fully closed it may suddenly open while driving, potentially causing an accident leading to serious injury or death.
Ensure no objects or body parts extend outside the vehicle while in motion.
Never leave children unattended in the vehicle as interior temperatures can get extremely hot or cold leading to serious injury or death.
Interior Door
To open the doors from inside the vehicle, door handles are provided on all four doors.
To open a door from the inside:
If locked, pull the inner door handle   to unlock the door.
Pull the inner door handle   a second time and push the door outward to open the door.
NOTE
To prevent children opening the rear doors using the interior door handles, engage the rear door child locks. See >   Child Rear Door Locks
WARNING
To prevent children from falling from the vehicle while in motion ensure all doors are properly closed and locked before starting driving.
Always use the Child Safety Door Lock when traveling with children.
Ensure all passengers are seated correctly and have seat belts fastened prior to commencing a journey.
Child Rear Door Lock
The Child Rear Door Lock feature prevents the rear doors from being opened from inside the vehicle, enhancing rear occupant and child safety. When this lock is engaged, the rear doors can only be opened by using the exterior door handle.
Activation
Child Rear Door Lock feature can be activated using the mechanical key.
To access the Mechanical Key - See >   Openings & Compartments > Keys and Locks > Mechanical Key
NOTE
Both rear doors are equipped with the Child Rear Door Lock feature.
To activate Child Rear Door Lock on Right Hand Side door
Open the rear door.
Locate the child door lock positioned inboard of the right hand side door latch  .
Insert the mechanical key in the lock   and rotate the key in a  clockwise direction  to activate feature.﻿ Gently rotate the key approximately 45 degrees.
The child lock feature is also available on the opposite door.
To activate Child Rear Door Lock on Left Hand Side door
Open the rear door.
Locate the child door lock positioned inboard of the left hand side door latch  .
Insert the mechanical key in the lock   and rotate the key in a  anti-clockwise direction  to activate feature.﻿ Gently rotate the key approximately 45 degrees.
WARNING
Never leave children unattended in the vehicle.
Ensure all doors are closed and locked prior to driving.
It is recommended to use the child rear door lock feature to prevent children from opening the rear doors while driving which could result in serious injury or death.
Do not rotate the key beyond 45 degrees. Excessive rotation may damage the locking mechanism.
NOTE
The child rear door lock feature does not lock the doors from the outside.

## Front and Rear Compartments

Liftgate
The Liftgate is located at the rear of the vehicle, and provides access to the rear-cargo compartment. The liftgate operates when the vehicle is in Park, as long as the key fob is in range.
Opening and Closing
The liftgate can be operated using any of the following methods:
Key fob
Car Control Area via Touchscreen, see > Displays, Connections and Climate >   Car Control Area .
Interior and Exterior Switch
Foot Kick Sensor
Manual Operation of liftgate
Power Liftgate Operation (If equipped)
To open or close the power liftgate using the key fob:
Long press liftgate button   on key fob once to open or close the power liftgate.
NOTE
A beep will be heard prior to liftgate operation.
To open or close the power liftgate using Car Control Area﻿ touchscreen controls:
Touch targets will appear on Car Control Area if the vehicle is in Park.
See > Displays, Connections and Climate >   Car Control Area .
To open and close tailgate via the exterior and interior buttons:
The liftgate can be operated using the liftgate switches present on the exterior and interior of the vehicle.
Press the exterior button   to open
Press the interior   button to close﻿
To open/close the power liftgate using Foot Kick Sensor ﻿(if equipped):
The power liftgate can be conveniently opened handsfree. There is a sensor below the left rear bumper that will respond to foot movements and open or close the liftgate automatically when the key fob is near the vehicle.
Ensure that the key fob is within vehicle range﻿.
Perform an upward foot-kick motion, as shown in the illustration, beneath the left side of the rear bumper.
Carefully step back to allow the liftgate to open or close.
NOTE
The foot-kick motion should be firm and properly timed, not too slow. Avoid kicking sideways (left or right), as the sensor may not detect such movements.
To turn on/off Foot-Kick Sensor:
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Tap  Settings   > Vehicle Settings > Doors .﻿
Use toggle button to turn on/off the feature.
NOTE
If the foot kick sensor does not operate properly, contact the nearest VinFast Service Center.
CAUTION
The foot kick sensor is located behind lower center part of rear bumper.
Do not stand too close to rear bumper while using the foot kick sensor.
Do not paint or apply any type of coating to the lower area of rear bumper which may affect the operation of the foot kick sensor.
Do not disassemble or make any changes to the rear bumper.
WARNING
Take care when the liftgate is in operation to avoid any injury.
To stop auto liftgate movement:
The power liftgate movement can be stopped using the following methods:
Press the interior liftgate button.
Press the liftgate button on the key fob.
Tap the Car Control Area liftgate icon on the touchscreen.
NOTE
The liftgate is fitted with anti-pinch sensors. If any obstacles are detected while closing the liftgate, it will revert to open position again.
Liftgate Height Adjustment
To adjust height of power liftgate:
Open the liftgate fully.
Press and hold the liftgate switch   for 3 seconds until a beep is heard.
Set the liftgate to the desired height.
Press and hold the liftgate switch   again for 3 seconds until beep is heard to confirm the desired height.
Close liftgate with button.
The liftgate will then open to the set position.
WARNING
Do not allow children to operate the liftgate switch.
When closing the liftgate, exercise caution to ensure that no body parts are in the path of the closing liftgate, which can cause serious injury.
Do not carry passengers in the liftgate area.
Keep the liftgate closed while the vehicle is in motion.
Never leave children around open luggage compartment. They could get inside the luggage compartment and accidentally close the liftgate trapping them inside.
Remove all the snow which can accumulate before opening the liftgate otherwise liftgate may get closed automatically due to the weight of the snow causing serious injuries.
CAUTION
The liftgate must be properly closed after closing it. The closed liftgate must be properly flushed with surrounding panels.
Manual Operation
To open and close the manual liftgate
The following methods will release the liftgate door in order to manually open it:
Key Fob
Car Control Area
Exterior Switch
To close the manual liftgate
Pull down the liftgate door until it is fully closed.
Emergency Safety Release
If the electric liftgate switch does not operate, the liftgate can be operated manually from inside the vehicle.
Remove the inside cover   on the back of the liftgate.
Push the white tab with force, as shown above  .
NOTE
If the liftgate can only be opened using the emergency operation lever, there may be an issue with the liftgate. Please visit a VinFast Service Center to check your vehicle.
Front Hood
The front hood provides access to the front cargo compartment, 12V battery, and fluid/coolant reservoirs.
Front Cargo compartment -  S torage > Front Cargo Compartment
Maintenance items -   Maintenance > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts
To open the front hood via the touchscreen (if equipped):
Ensure the vehicle is in  Park (P).
Touch targets will appear above the tailgate & hood in the Car Control Area area of the touchscreen﻿. See > Displays, Connections and Climate >   Car Control Area .
Tap the hood indicator on the touchscreen to unlock it.
When standing in front of the vehicle, lift the hood up to open it.
To open the front hood via manual release:
Pull the hood open switch located on the underside of the driver’s dashboard. The hood will open to a small amount.
Pull the hood release lever a second time to release the hood from the latch.
When standing in front of the vehicle, lift the hood up to open it.
WARNING
Do not open the hood with objects and/or people on it.
Do not pull the bracket by hand or pull it laterally, otherwise the bracket may be bent and the hood may not be opened and closed.
In case the hood is not latched securely while driving, stop the vehicle and close it immediately, to avoid a serious accident from occurring.
It is not safe to drive the vehicle with the hood raised, as this will hinder vision and lead to an accident.
To close the front hood:
Lower the hood slowly until the first position of the lock is engaged.
Push down on the hood to engaged the second stage lock.
CAUTION
Do not install accessories other than original VinFast products on the hood. This may increase the weight of the hood, and cause the hood support to fail.
Ensure all obstructions are removed before closing hood.To prevent damage:
- Do not apply excessive force when closing.
- Use both hands to close the hood to prevent applying concentrated force in one area which result in a dent.
- Do not apply pressure to the front edge of the hood. It may crease the edge.
- To avoid scratches, make sure your hands are empty while closing hood.

## Windows

Window Controls
The vehicle windows can be controlled using the window switches, which are located on the driver’s side door and the passenger side doors.
Driver Side Door:
Driver window switch
Front Passenger window switch
Rear Right window switch
Rear Left window switch
Passenger Side Door:
To open and close the windows:
Locate the window control switches on the driver’s side front door   or passenger side doors  .
Push the window switch down slightly to  OPEN
Pull the window switch up slightly to  CLOSE
Release the switch at any time to stop window travel
Windows can also be opened or closed using the key fob. This feature is helpful to ventilate the vehicle before entering or in situations were the windows are open after exiting the vehicle. See >   Keys and Locks > Remote Key Functions > Comfort Mode  for more info.
Auto-Opening/Closing (express mode)
To fully open the window automatically, push the window button completely down, the power window will open until the window reaches the lowest position.
To fully close the window automatically, pull the window button completely up, the power window will close until the window reaches the highest position.
NOTE
The windows can be operated for 15 seconds when the vehicle power mode transitions from On to Off power mode.
The driver’s side window control switches have the main priority over the other passenger window switches.
Never try to operate the main switch on the driver’s door and the individual door window switch in opposite directions at the same time. If this is done, the window will stop and cannot be opened or closed.
WARNING
Before closing a power window, ensure that all occupants, especially children, do not have any body parts extended through the window opening. Failure to do so could cause serious injury.
While closing the window, check for obstructions like a head, hand, etc which may lead to personal injuries.
For safety reasons, always switch on the safety lock, it can prevent children from accidentally using the power windows. Do not allow children to play with the power windows.
Do not leave the key inside the vehicle.
Never close the windows or sunshades carelessly or in an uncontrolled manner as this may increase the risk of injury.
CAUTION
To avoid electrical overheating of the switch, window operation is temporarily disabled if the windows are repeatedly operated in a short period of time.
Avoid tinting the window glass as a tinted window can affect visibility of the display in the exterior mirror in the driver’s door or front passenger’s door.
Initialize Windows:
If the windows cannot be closed automatically via the express function (e.g. after disconnecting the vehicle 12V battery or after replacing the Anti-Pinch Module fuse), the owner may be required to re-initialize the windows.
To initialize windows:
Close all doors.
Switch on ignition.
Close the window completely and keep the switch pulled for an additional 2 seconds.
Repeat for each window.
WARNING
During the initialization process, the car window has no anti-pinch function. Make sure no body parts or other objects obstruct the closing of the car window, otherwise, it will cause damage and affect the result of the initialization learning. If the power window system fails, please visit the nearest VinFast Service Center.
Comfort Open and Close
The windows can also be opened via the following methods:
Key Fob, see >   Remote Key Functions > Other Remote Key Functions.
Passive door button, see >  Exterior Doors  > Passive Entry via Door Handle .
Safety Functions
Child Window Lockout
The child window lockout button prevents rear seat passengers from operating the windows by deactivating rear seat window controls.﻿ This helps to provide additional safety for rear-seated children who may accidentally open windows, and exit the vehicle while in motion.
NOTE
It is recommended that the child window lockout is used whenever children are seated in the rear seats.
WARNING
The child window lockout should be always used to avoid children accidentally opening the rear windows and potentially falling out while the vehicle is in motion.
To Activate / Deactivate the Child window lockout:
Press the child window lockout button   to activate rear power window lockout. The indicator light will illuminate.
To deactivate, press the button   again. The indicator will turn off.
NOTE
Ensure the child window lockout is enabled by checking the function via the rear power window switch.
Anti-Pinch Safety Function
If the window glass detects an obstacle while closing it will automatically stop and return to the fully open position.
Express Window Up will not function if Anti pinch is detected multiple times, the owner must complete the window initialization process to regain the express window function again. See >   Windows > Window Controls  .
Overload Protection
To avoid electrical overload, the window operation is disabled for a short period of time if the switch is repeatedly operated at short intervals.
Panoramic Sunroof (if equipped)
The vehicle may be equipped with panoramic glass sunroof and powered sunshade. Sunroof functionality can be controlled using Car Control Area on the touchscreen.
Panoramic Glass roof operation
To access Glass Roof and Sunshade Controls:
Tap to Car control icon   on Car control bar.
Tap on the sunroof touch target present  .
The Sunroof control card will open.
Operating the Sunshade
To open or close the sunshade:
From the sunroof control card:
Drag the  Shade  slider downwards to open the sunshade.
Drag the  Shade  slider upwards to close the sunshade.
Operating the Glass Roof
To open or close the Glass Roof:
Drag the  Glass  slider downwards to open the sunroof.
Drag the  Glass  slider upwards to close the sunroof.
Tap on  Vent  to vent the glass roof. When the glass roof and sunshade are both closed tapping Vent opens the shade about 10-15cm and lifts the glass up.
To open or close both Glass Roof and Sunshade:
Tap  Open All  to fully open the Glass Roof and Sunshade.
Tap  Close All  to fully close Glass Roof and Sunshade.
NOTE
If the sunroof and shade are already fully open or closed, the Open All or Close All buttons will be deactivated.
Anti-Pinch
The system will automatically stop any closing of the sunroof and reposition the glass if it detects any obstruction, to prevent any damage to the trapped object and the sunroof itself.
Sunroof Recalibration
The sunroof and sunshade can be re-calibrated in the event there is an issue with their operation.
NOTE
Sunroof Recalibration is only available when the vehicle is in Park (P).
To recalibrate the sunroof:
Tap to Quick control icon   on Car control bar.
Tap on the sunroof touch target present  .
Tap  Calibrate .
Tap and hold  Calibrate  until the sunroof is completely closed.
Release  Calibrate  to commence recalibration.
After successful recalibration, a message will be displayed on screen.
WARNING
The anti-pinch function will not be functional while the sunroof is recalibrating. Please be sure to keep all objects out of the path of the sunroof during this process.
CAUTION
Do not open a snow covered sunroof.
Do no open the sunroof when it’s raining.
Do not place any body parts out of the sunroof opening.
Ensure that there is no objects obstructing the sunroof while the sunroof is operating.
Do not place a heavy object on or around the sunroof.
Make sure to keep the sunroof tracks and nearby areas clear of foreign objects. (Plastic bags, wrappers, etc.)
When the vehicle is left unattended, the sunroof must be closed.
WARNING
Do not allow occupants to extend any part of their body through the sunroof, doing so can inflict serious injury from flying debris, tree branches, or other obstructions.
Before closing the sunroof, always ensure that occupants do not have any body part extended through the sunroof opening. Failure to do so can cause serious injury.
It is recommended not to adjust the sunroof while driving. This could result in loss of vehicle control.
Do not sit on top of the vehicle. It may cause injury or damage the vehicle.

## Storage

Glove Box
The vehicle glove box is located in the lower section of the dashboard, in front of the passenger seat.
Once opened, the glove box light illuminates the storage area. The light will turn off automatically when the glove box is closed.
To open the glove box:
Pull the handle﻿ in the direction as shown
CAUTION
Close the glove box door gently. Do not use excessive force.
WARNING
Do not put heavy or sharp objects in the glove box. In an accident, these objects may cause the glove box to open and could result in serious injury.
Never leave the glove box door open. A passenger may suffer serious injuries due to an open glove box door in the event of an accident.
Ensure that glove box is closed while driving.
Center Console
The center console is located between the driver and front passenger seats. The center console forms both an armrest and a central storage bin.
Armrest
The armrest is located in between the front passenger and driver seats as part of the center console lid. The armrest provides comfort to the driver and passenger.
Center Console Storage
The center console storage bin is located under the armrest. It can be used to store small items safely and securely.
To access the center console storage bin:
Press the release button  .
Pull the armrest cover upwards   to open.
CAUTION
The use of excessive force to open the storage compartment may damage the armrest.
Do not forget to close the console lid before driving.
WARNING
Never store flammable items in the vehicle.
To avoid vehicle damage, disconnect all USB cables from the vehicle when not in use. USB cables left plugged into the vehicle, unconnected to a device, could be damaged or cause an electrical short if the unconnected end comes in contact with liquids or other power source such as the accessory power outlet.
Door Pocket Storage
The vehicle features door pocket storage for both front   and rear   passengers. The door pockets are designed to store drink bottles and other small personal items.
Please ensure that any items stored within the door pockets fit properly in the compartment. If bottles or other items are too large for the door pockets, please store them in another safe location, such as the rear trunk.
WARNING
Any unsafely stored items within door pockets may become loose during vehicle operation. Such items may come out from the compartment when the vehicle is in motion and may lead to situations resulting in serious injury or death.
Avoid storing glass items in door pockets. Such items may break whilst driving and may cause serious injuries to passengers.
When storing drink bottles in door pockets, always ensure that the bottle cap is fully tightened.
Cup Holders
The vehicle has four cup holders for the storage of beverages and other small items.
The cup holders are located:
In between the front seats, in the Center Console  .
In the rear seats inside the Middle Arm Rest  .
To access Rear Cup Holders:
Fold down the rear arm rest  .
Push the cup holders inwards  .
The cup-holders will then slide out in the direction shown
WARNING
Do not put anything other than cups or beverage cans in the cup holder.
In the event of an accident or emergency braking, such items may be thrown out of the cup holder, resulting in personal injury. If there are hot drinks, please tighten the cover tightly to avoid scalding.
Front Cargo Compartment
The cargo compartment is located at the front of the vehicle under the hood. The front cargo compartment provides storage for smaller pieces of luggage and provides access to maintenance items.
To access the Front Cargo Compartment:
See >   Front and Rear Compartments > Front Hood
Washer Fluid Reservoir
Coolant Fluid
12V Battery
Fuse Box
Brake Fluid
Front Cargo Compartment Emergency release:
In case of an emergency situation, the front hood can be opened using the interior release button located in the front cargo compartment.
The interior release button also works as a light which turns On when the hood is opened and turns Off when the hood is closed.
CAUTION
Do not leave the front luggage compartment open while driving. Doing so could cause damage to the luggage compartment and its components.
WARNING
Be sure to lock the vehicle doors and luggage compartment, and keep key fob out of the reach of children, to avoid children getting locked in the vehicle.
Under no circumstances should people climb inside the luggage compartment. Never close the luggage compartment when someone is inside it.
Rear Cargo Compartment
The rear cargo compartment provides storage for larger pieces of luggage or objects that need to be stored securely including the vehicle tools and spare wheel, that are also located in this compartment under the cargo load floor﻿.
To remove the cargo floor cover  , pull up on the tab.
WARNING
When braking suddenly, loose objects may get thrown into the interior of the vehicle increasing the risk of an accident or personal injury.
To avoid children getting trapped in the vehicle never leave the vehicle unattended, especially if the Liftgate is open.
Do not allow small children to play in the vehicle.
Parcel Shelf (if equipped)
The vehicle may be fitted with a rear parcel shelf located behind the back seats. The parcel shelf provides a barrier to objects entering the cabin and reduces cabin noise.
To remove the rear parcel shelf:
Fold both rear seats forward. ﻿See >  S eat Adjustment > Rear Seat Fold
Remove the drawstrings on both sides of the parcel shelf﻿  .
Push the parcel shelf forwards in vehicle to disengage the 4 parcel shelf retainers
Slide the parcel shelf upwards to remove﻿.
To Install Parcel Shelf﻿:
Fold both rear seats forward.﻿ See >  S eat Adjustment > Rear Seat Fold
Pass the parcel shelf into the vehicle via the rear doors
Lift the parcel shelf and align the locating tabs with the grooves in the rear compartment trim.
Pull shelf outwards to lock in place.
Attach the two drawstrings of the parcel shelf to either sides.
CAUTION
The hinges and locating pins of the parcel shelf are not designed to bear heavy loads, do not apply excessive force while installing or removing the parcel shelf. Using excessive force can break or damage the parcel shelf.
WARNING
Do not store any objects on the parcel shelf. In the event of sudden braking, maneuvering, or an accident the objects can come loose risking personal injury to occupants.
Spare Wheel and Tools﻿ (if equipped)
The spare wheel and tools are located under the cargo floor in the rear luggage compartment. ﻿Following items may be found under the cargo floor depending on region of sale:
Tire Inflator kit and power lead
Lifting Jack and crank
Towing Eyes
Spare Wheel
Mobile Charger
For details on how to change a tire, see >   Vehicle Recovery > Vehicle Jack and tire repair.
WARNING
Do not exceed the speed limit of 60 km/h (37 mph) when spare tire is fitted.
The use of any space saving spare tire is NOT recommended. If there is a problem with the tire or wheel, use the inflator kit (if equipped).   See > ;  Vehicle Assistance > Vehicle Recovery >   Vehicle Jack & Tire Repair   kit section or reach the roadside assistance service. If you need a spare tire, only utilize full size spare tire. Always drive carefully when driving with a spare tire. It is for temporary use only. Be aware that the handling performance may be affected when using spare tires.
Failure to follow this can lead to an accident, causing serious injury or death.
Seatback Pocket
Seatback pocket storage areas are provided in both first-row seats and may be used to store maps, magazines, booklets or thin books, etc.
Ensure that the items stored inside the seatback pockets fit properly in the compartment. If items are too large for the seatback pockets, store them in another safe location, such as the rear cargo compartment.
CAUTION
The seatback pockets of two seats in the first row are designed to keep thin books, magazines, maps or booklets, etc. They are not intended to keep water bottles, cups, handbags, etc. Failure to comply can lead to seatback pockets damages.

## Vehicle Security

Theft Alarm
The theft alarm system helps to protect the vehicle and its contents from break in.﻿ When activated the system will emit both an audible and visual alert using the vehicle horn, turn signals and touchscreen display.
When will the vehicle theft alarm be triggered?
If the vehicle is locked and armed the following will trigger the alarm:
If any of the front or rear doors are forcefully opened.
When the liftgate is forcefully opened.
When the hood is forcefully opened.
When the vehicle location is different from the saved location (GPS monitoring required)
Theft Alarm Operation
To activate the theft alarm:
The vehicle theft alarm will automatically activate anytime the vehicle is locked.
To change the alert type:
The theft alert type can be changed via the Security Settings page. Choose between lights, horn or lights and horn feedback.
Tap  App Library   , on the touchscreen.
Tap  Settings   > Security Settings   > Theft Alert
Use the toggle button to select an alert type.
ON Duration
The Theft Alarm will remain active for 30s. The turn lights and horn will be active for the period of 30 sec, at the same time anti-theft indicator will be flashing.
GPS Monitoring
GPS Monitoring is a vehicle security system that alerts the owner when the vehicle is moved from it’s parked location.
NOTE
GPS monitoring can not be activated if the battery percentage is below 70%.
To turn ON/OFF GPS Monitoring system:
GPS monitoring can be activated/deactivated by tapping  ON/OFF  from the Theft Alerts settings page.
Theft Alarm Activation
When the theft alarm is activated the vehicle horn will sound and the turn indicators will flash.
To Stop the alarm:
The vehicle warning alarm can be stopped by any of the following ways:
Press and hold the Tailgate Unlock button on the keyfob.
Press the PE (Passive Entry) button on the door handle.
Press any button on the keyfob.
Stopping the Alarm if the Key Fob Battery is flat
If the key fob battery is flat the alarm will not be able to be deactivated by pressing the key fob unlock button. To enter the vehicle and disable the alarm with a flat key fob battery. See >   Keys and Locks > Mechanical Key  .
CAUTION
Ensure that no passengers are in the vehicle before locking the vehicle. The alarm will activate if a passenger leaves the vehicle.
Please make sure that all the doors are closed, otherwise the theft alarm system will not arm.
NOTE
If the vehicle is unlocked but no doors are opened within 30 seconds, the vehicle will automatically re-lock and the alarm system will rearm.
Immobilizer
The vehicle Immobilizer prevents the vehicle from starting if an attempt is made to turn the vehicle ON with an invalid or incorrect key fob. ﻿The Immobilizer also checks whether any of the vehicle control modules have been tampered with prior to allowing the vehicle to start.
Vehicle Immobilizer Operation
The Immobilizer gets automatically turned on when the vehicle is in a locked state.
The immobilizer telltale will be displayed briefly on the Car Control Area area of the touchscreen upon detection of a valid key fob by the immobilizer system, the telltale will turn off automatically.
If the system does not recognize a key fob, the telltale will flash and prevent the vehicle from starting. If this occurs, please ensure that the correct key fob is being used and any metal objects are removed from around the key fob, which can cause interference. If this repeatedly occurs and inhibits the vehicle from starting contact a VinFast Service Center.
CAUTION
The Vehicle Immobilizer system may not stop the vehicle from being stolen or getting damaged.
Ensure the key fob is not left inside the vehicle when exiting.
The immobilizer and key fob function together as a pair to secure the vehicle. A damaged key fob may not function properly and result in issues with starting or immobilizing the vehicle.
Avoid dropping, knocking or exposing the key fob to moisture, static electricity or other electrical interference.
Do not tamper with electrical devices in the vehicle as this can cause terminal vehicle issues.
WARNING
Consider the vehicle location and surroundings before leaving the vehicle unattended. Do not rely completely on this system to protect the vehicle.

# Seats, Restraints & Safety


## Seats

Front Seats
Please follow all seating guidelines to ensure optimum protection during an accident. Seats, headrests, seat belts, and airbags work together to ensure passenger safety.
Ensure that the seat position is adjusted to prior to driving for an optimal driving experience. These adjustments can be accomplished with the electric controls located on the side of the seat.
When adjusting the seat, make sure to maintain the recommended distance from the steering wheel and the airbag.
NOTE
Wear a seatbelt for the entire duration of the journey.
For more information regarding correct seating positions. See >   Correct and incorrect seating positions.
NOTE
ECO variants have 8 way power adjustment for driver and 6 way power adjustment for passenger seats.
PLUS variants have 12 way power adjustment for driver and 10 way power adjustment for passenger seats.
Rear Seats
Please follow all seating guidelines to ensure optimum seating comfort and protection during an accident. Seats, headrests, seat belts, and airbags work together to ensure passenger safety.
NOTE
Always wear a seat belt when traveling in the vehicle.
The rear seats of the vehicle are designed so that they can be folded to increase the luggage capacity. A 60-40 configuration can be used while folding rear seats, or both seats can be folded. See >   Rear Seat Fold  .
The rear center seat also incorporates an armrest and two cup holders.
See >   Cup holders.
For more information regarding correct seating positions
See >   Correct and incorrect seating positions.
NOTE
The vehicle are fitted with a 2-way manual rear seat adjustment.
Seat Adjustment
The vehicle is fitted with a driver’s seat and four passenger seats. The following section describes how the seats can be adjusted to provide safe and comfortable travel for all occupants.
WARNING
Under no circumstances should more than five occupants be present in the vehicle whilst in motion. Traveling with an excessive number of passengers is dangerous to all occupants, even to those who may be safely restrained.
Front Seat Adjustment (12 Way)
Tilt Adjustment (if available):
To adjust the seat surface (tilt) upward or downward, pull/ push the front section of the tilt button   upward or downward.
Forwards/Rearward Adjustment:
To move the seat forward or rearward slide the travel button   in the intended direction of travel.
Seat Height:
To move the seat cushion upward or downward, pull/push the rear section of the height button   upward or downward as shown.
Seat back Angle Adjustment:
To move the backrest forward or backward, pull/ push the backrest button   forward or backward.
Lumbar Support (if available):
The Lumbar adjustment switch consists of four sections front, rear, upper and lower.
To adjust the lumbar support, press the lumber button   in the desired direction.
CAUTION
Adjust the seat position before fastening the seatbelt.
Keep fingers clear of moving seat components while adjusting to avoid risk of injury.
WARNING
Sitting in a fully reclined position when the vehicle is in motion can be dangerous and reduces the effectiveness of vehicle safety systems.
Sitting in a moving vehicle with a reclined seat back increases the chance of serious or fatal injuries in the event of a collision or sudden stop.
All occupants in a moving vehicle must keep their seat backs upright and their seat belts fastened at all times.
Supervise children when operating power seat adjustments.
Adjust the driver’s seat only when the vehicle is stationary. Adjusting the seat while driving is dangerous and may result in an accident.
Drivers and passengers should always sit well back in their seats with seat belts properly fastened and backrests upright. Failure to do this could result in serious injury or death in the event of an accident.
The driver and front passenger should sit as far rearward as possible to reduce risk of injury from a deploying airbag.
Do not put any luggage, loose items or pets on the front passenger seat.
Headrest
The vehicle’s front and rear seats have headrests. The headrests in the front seats are adjustable (non-removable) whereas the rear seat headrests are fixed. The headrests provide comfort for passengers, but their primary purpose is to help protect passengers from whiplash and other neck and spinal injuries during an accident.
Headrest Components:
The headrest system has the following components:
Energy absorber head rest  .
Headrest adjustment button  .
Steel stems  .
Headrest Adjustment
The headrest height can be raised or lowered. Adjust the headrest so the middle of the head restraint is at the same height as the height of the top of the eyes. Adjust the backrest to an upright position before adjusting the headrest.
To adjust the Headrest Height:
Press the locking button   on the outboard side of the headrest.
Lift/Lower the headrest.
Release the locking button to lock the headrest in it’s new position.
For taller passengers where the headrest can not be positioned as recommended, adjust the headrest to its maximum/highest position.
NOTE
The driver seat and front passenger headrests can be adjusted but not removed.
WARNING
All occupants (includes driver and all passengers) must correctly position headrests prior to operating the vehicle. A correctly adjusted headrest minimizes the risk of neck and spinal injury in the event of an accident.
Do not adjust the headrest of the driver’s seat while driving.
Do not let any passengers occupy a seat with the head restraint removed or reversed.
Adjust the headrest as close to the passenger’s head as possible. Do not use a seat cushion that holds the occupants body away from the seat back.
Ensure the headrest locks into position after adjusting it.
Rear Seat Adjustment
To adjust the rear seat back forward and backward:
Second row bench seats can accommodate up to three passengers. The bench seats are split in a 60/40 configuration and can be adjusted as follows:
Pull the mechanical adjustment lever located at   the side of each outboard seating position.
Move the seat back as required
Release to lock the seat back in position
To fold the rear seat back:
The rear seats may be folded to increase rear storage capacity of the vehicle. ﻿To fold down the rear seats:
Remove all items from the rear seats.
Place the rear seat belt buckles in their pockets﻿.
Pull the adjustment lever   on the side of the outboard seat and rotate the seat back downward.﻿
The rear seats can be folded separately in a 60/40 split configuration or both together. To return the rear seats to the upright position, pull the adjustment lever and simultaneously pull the seat upwards until locked in position.
CAUTION
When returning the rear seat backrests to the upright position, ensure that the seat belt is not caught behind the seat.
Before adjusting the rear seat backrests the vehicle should be parked on level ground with the parking brake applied.
Do not put heavy items on the seats when they are folded as they may damage the folding mechanism.
WARNING
Do not adjust the rear seats while driving as this may lead to an accident causing serious injury.
Do not allow children to play inside the vehicle when the rear seats are folded as this may lead to serious injury.
Make sure hands, fingers, feet or other body parts are kept clear of the seat folding mechanism while adjusting or folding the rear seat.
Ensure each rear seat backrest is locked securely in position to ensure the backrest does not move during sudden braking or during an accident.
Do not put any heavy or unsecured luggage on the rear seats or inside the passenger compartment.
When returning a seat back to its upright position, make sure it is firmly locked.
NOTE
The rear passenger seats have fixed headrests; they cannot be adjusted.
Memory Seats﻿ (If equipped)
The memory seat feature saves the preferred seat adjustment to a user profile. When a driver starts the vehicle and a profile is loaded the memorized seat position will automatically adjust to it’s previously saved location.
NOTE
Only the front seats of the vehicle are electronically adjusted. Memory seat function is applicable only for the driver seat.
To save/delete a seat position to memory/profile for the first time:
Adjust the seat to your desired position.
Tap  Profile Name > My Profile   > Personalization.
Tap  Save New / Delete .
To recall a memorized seat position:
When the driver loads his/her profile:
The seat position will be automatically recalled to the saved Position.
To change a memorized seat position:
The driver can reset or change a seat position after saving it to the profile. To save a new seat position:
Adjust the seat to the desired position and a notification will pop-up on screen.
Tap  Save  and the new seat position will be saved to the active profile.
WARNING
Ensure the driver’s seating position is adjusted prior to driving. An incorrect seating position may impact both driving comfort and the ability for the driver to control the vehicle.
Check seat surroundings before adjusting seat position to avoid injury to other passengers or damaging the seat.
Seat Heating and Ventilation (if equipped)
The vehicle may be equipped with heated and ventilated seats for both the front and rear passengers.
The heating and ventilation can be controlled by the Climate control page on the touchscreen. See >   Climate Controls  .
WARNING
People who cannot detect temperature or pain to the skin should exercise extreme caution. In such cases, prolonged usage of heated seats may cause burns to the skin.
Do not cover the seats with anything that can insulate heat, such as a blanket, cushion, seat covers, or similar items. This may cause the seat heater to overheat which may result in burns to the skin and damage to the seat.
Correct Seating Positions
Sitting in a correct seating position is very important to ensure both driver and passenger safety. Follow these recommendations for proper seating:
The driver and passengers feet must be on the floor.
The driver and passenger should not slide forward on the seat.
The driver and the front passenger should maintain a distance of 12.7 to 25.7 cm (5 to 10 inches) from the steering wheel or the dashboard.
The backrest must be in an upright position and the occupants back should be resting against it.
The backrest should not be reclined to a laying down position when the vehicle is in motion.
Every occupant should make sure that they are sitting at the center of each designated seat, sitting in a haphazard manner (offset from the seat center, sideways, etc) can cause fatal injury in the event of an accident.
Children should not lean against the dashboard area.
Arms of the driver should be slightly bent (around 120 degrees) and the chest should not be closer than 30 cm from the wheel.
All occupants of the vehicle must wear seat belts when the car is in motion.
For correct head rest positioning. See >   Seats > Seat Adjustments > Head Rest Adjustment  .
Examples of incorrect seating position:
Example of correct seating position:

## Seat Belts

Seat Belt Use
Vehicle seat belts provide the most effective protection to the driver and passengers in the event of a vehicle accident. Always ensure all passengers have fastened their seat belts before the vehicle is driven.
Wearing a seat belt while driving a vehicle is required by law in most jurisdictions.
Wearing Seat Belts
The vehicle is equipped with three-point inertia reel seat belts with pre-tensioner and automatic locking retractor (ALR).
The seat belt pre-tensioner is designed to tighten the seat belt automatically by reducing the slack in both the lap and shoulder portions of the belt in the event the vehicle experiences a sudden force resulting from a hard acceleration, braking, cornering, or a collision.
The automatic locking retractor (ALR) enables the seat belts in passenger seat locations to be used for securing child seat without using a seatbelt locking clip (the belt extends fully and can be used to lock child seats). See >   Child Restraints  .
Correct Seating Position:
A correct seating position is very important to ensure driver’s and passenger’s safety. Follow all recommended seating guidelines to lower the chances of injury in the event of an accident.
For more information. See >   Seats > Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions  .
WARNING
If the occupants of the front seats are close to the steering wheel or dashboard, the airbag system may not provide optimal protection, which increases the risk of injury or death.
To fasten a Seat Belt:
Latch Plate
Buckle
Ensure a correct sitting position.
Advance the seat belt from its retracted position. Make sure that the belt is not twisted and lays flat across the occupant’s body (shoulders, torso, and pelvic region), as shown  .
Insert the latch plate into the buckle  , make sure that the latch plate clicks in to locked condition.
Pull the seat belt to check that it is fastened securely.
Pull the diagonal part of the seat belt over the occupant’s torso and shoulders towards the retractor, to remove any excess slack  .
WARNING
Inadequately positioned seat belts may increase the risk of serious injury in an accident. To avoid wearing the seat belt incorrectly, occupants must always sit in correct sitting position; place one arm under the shoulder belt and the other over the shoulder belt (ensure that the shoulder belt is not against your neck or face) and place the lap belt across the hip (as low as possible), not across the waist. Ensure that the seat belt fits the body snugly, the belt is not twisted, and the latch plate is locked properly into the buckle.
Do not make modifications or additions that can prevent a seat belt mechanism from taking up slack, or that can prevent a seat belt from being adjusted to remove slack. A slack belt greatly reduces occupant protection.
Testing Seat Belts
Make sure each seat belt operates correctly by performing these three simple checks.
Pull the webbing nearest the buckle while the seat belt is fastened. The buckle should remain securely locked.
Unroll the webbing to the limit with the belt unfastened. Make sure that the unreeling is free from snags and that the webbing is in good condition. Check that the webbing retracts smoothly and completely.
Grasp the tongue plate and quickly pull forward with the webbing half unreeled. It should automatically lock and prevent further unraveling.
If a seat belt fails any of these tests, contact VinFast Service Center immediately.
To unfasten the Seat Belt:
Hold the belt near the buckle   to avoid the seat belt hitting the occupant while retracting.
Press the red button on the buckle   to release the latch plate and set the seat belt free.
Make sure that the seat belt does not get stuck while retracting.﻿
WARNING
While releasing the seat belt, hold the latch firmly and guide the seat belt slowly back to its retracted position to avoid injury from seat belt lashing.
Wearing a seatbelt while pregnant
If pregnant, particular attention should be taken when wearing a seatbelt to protect the mother and the fetus. The lap belt should be worn snugly and as low as possible around the hips ensuring it does not press on the abdomen. The shoulder belt strap should be worn across the shoulder and to the side of the abdomen, ensuring it is not across the stomach area. If unsure, please consult a doctor for specific medical recommendations.
WARNING
A pregnant woman should never wear the seat belt across the stomach area. This could lead to a serious injury to the fetus and/or the pregnant mother.
Never wear twisted seat belts. Excessive forces will be transferred from the belt to the occupant in a collision which may result in serious personal injury.
Never place any items between the passenger and the seatbelt as this may negatively interfere with the seat belt’s operation.
Seat belt Warning Indicator
Driver and Passenger seatbelt status:
The seatbelt warning light   will illuminate on the touchscreen if any occupied front or rear seat belt is unbuckled while the vehicle is on.
If the driver then proceeds to drive above 9 mph (15 km/h) without the seat belt(s) fastened, a chime will also sound. A warning notification pop-up will be shown, displaying the occupied seat(s) and the seat belt status.
When the driver and or passenger(s) fastens the seat belt(s), the warning light disappears and the seat occupancy detection indicator turns green.
NOTE
The front passenger seat belt warning can come on if luggage or heavy objects are placed on the front passenger seat.
To check seat belt status:
There are two ways to check the seat belt status:
View the warning message
OR
Check the seat belt status color shown on the car icon in the Driver view:
Status Color
For seats with Occupancy Detection Sensors
Grey - Normal
No occupant detected
Red - Unbuckled
Occupant detected, not buckled
Green - Buckled
Buckled
CAUTION
Do not wear a seat belt over fragile, hard or sharp objects, it may damage the seat belt.
WARNING
Seat belts must be used by all passengers whenever the vehicle is moving, not wearing seat belts may result in serious injury or death.
Never unfasten a seat belt while driving for any reason. Failure to follow this warning could result in serious injury or death.
Do not use a seat belt if the retractor mechanism or any other part of the seat belt is damaged. Visit a VinFast Service Center to get it replaced. Using a damaged seat belt is very dangerous and may result in serious personal injury or death.
User’s should not modify or tamper with the seat belt or its mechanisms, it may lead to failure of the system. Using a seat belt with damaged component is very dangerous and may cause serious injury or death.
Do not latch the seat belt into the buckles of other seats. Seat belts are designed to function effectively only when the latch plate of a particular seat belt is locked into its paired buckle. Failure to follow this warning could result in serious personal injury or death.
Do not keep the seat back of a seat in reclined position while the vehicle is in motion. Doing so could result in serious personal injury or death.
Do not wear the shoulder belt under your arm or behind your back. Doing so is unsafe and may result in serious personal injury or death.
Do not wear the seat belt with any part of the strap twisted. A twisted seat belt will not function properly in an accident and could result in serious personal injury or death.
Multiple people should not use a single seat belt. Seat belts are designed to protect a single occupant occupying a particular seat where it is mounted/attached.
Make sure there is nothing in the buckle interfering seat belt’s latch plate. This may prevent the seat belt from fastening securely. Failure to follow this warning could result in serious injury or death.
Children under the age of 13 should be properly restrained in the rear seats. Failure to follow this warning could result in serious injury or death.
Never allow children to ride in the front passenger seat unless the air bag is deactivated. If a child is seated in the front passenger seat, move the seat as far back as possible and properly restrain them in the seat.
Carrying an infant/child on an occupant’s lap is dangerous, and doing so may result in serious injury or death of the infant/child or the adult or both.
Seat Belt Care
Seat belts are a critical component in the vehicle occupant protection system and must be cared for to ensure that they function effectively in the event of accident, or other serious incident. If seat belts are damaged in any way, please stop using the affected seat and visit the nearest VinFast Service Center to have the belt inspected as soon as possible.
Recommendations for seat belt care:
Make sure that the seat belt is not damaged or clamped by sharp objects.
Always keep the seat belt retractor clean and free of dust.
Avoid contamination of seat belt webbing by polishes, oils, chemicals, and particularly battery acid.
Fully extend the seat belts and clean them with a mild, nonabrasive soap and lukewarm water. After washing thoroughly, sponge the solution out of the belts. Do not allow the belts to retract until fully dry.
Regularly inspect the seatbelt webbing for contamination, damage or fraying.
Do not bleach or re-dye the webbing because this may weaken the seat belt.
Do not insert any items such as coins, clips, etc. into the seat belt buckles, if foreign materials get into a seat belt buckle, the seat belt may not work properly.
CAUTION
Do not use bleach, strong detergents or an abrasive brush or cloth to clean the seatbelt as it may damage and weaken the fabric.
Do not use steamers, brushes with hard bristles, hard sponges etc to clean the seats as this can damage the seats.
WARNING
Never disassemble, modify or tamper with the seat belts and the seat belt system.

## Child Restraint Systems

Child Restraint System Overview
The seat belts fitted in the vehicle are designed to fit and secure adults and older children. Small children and infants must be secured in a certified Child Restraint System (CRS) suitable for their age, height, and weight, and for the seat position of choice. Not all CRS are safe to use in all seat positions (more details are given further below).
Use in order of preference the outer seats of the second row, the central seat of the second seat row, and only in case of necessity the front passenger seat for mounting a CRS to accommodate small children and infants.
It is recommended that children under the age of 12 use a child restraint system in order to minimize the risk of injury in the event of an accident or sudden vehicle maneuver.
Most countries will have laws and regulations which stipulate children need to travel in an approved child restraint system. Please be aware of the requirements in the country where the vehicle is driven.
The front passenger seat is equipped with an Occupant Classification Sensor (OCS). When the OCS determines that an occupant is present, the front passenger airbag will remain ON. The OCS alternatively will turn the airbag OFF if a child restraint system is present. Notification is via the     icon displayed on the touchscreen.
WARNING
Children 12 years and under should always be properly restrained in the rear seat of the vehicle.
In an exceptional circumstances where a child restraint system seat must be secured in the front passenger seat, ensure the Passenger Airbag OFF   icon remains displayed at all times.Avoid using a rear facing child restraint system on the front passenger seat, even if the front passenger airbag off icon is displayed. Children who are resting against, or very close to an airbag when it inflates can be seriously injured or killed.
Do not modify the child restraint system in any way.
An incorrectly secured child restraint system may cause serious or fatal injury to the child in the event of an accident. Always follow the manufacturer’s instructions to ensure the correct fitment of a child restraint system.
Do not use a child restraint system to secure more than one child.
Always ensure that a child is properly secured at all times. Failure to do so may result in the child being propelled from the child restraint system risking serious or fatal injuries.
Never hold an infant or child while riding in a vehicle.
Before installing a child restraint system, ensure that the seat backrest is in an upright position and locked.
Never leave children unattended in the vehicle, even if they are secured in a child restraint system.
A seat belt or a child restraint system may become hot when exposed to sunlight. Take care before fastening a child to avoid burns.
Laws and regulations that govern how children should be restrained in a vehicle are subject to change. Therefore, it is the driver’s responsibility to be familiar and comply with regulations of the region where the vehicle is driven.
The image below identifies where child restraint systems can be fitted in the vehicle. Please read all the information in the following section to identify the correct type and orientation when securing children in the vehicle.
Types of Child Restraint Systems:
There are three types of child restraints systems suitable for fitment to your vehicle categorized by their orientation and/or design:
Rear Facing
Forward Facing
Booster Seat
Each of these restraint types may be mounted using one of the following fixture methods:
Belted - secured via the vehicle’s seat belt
ISOFIX / i-Size - secured via anchor points built into the vehicle’s seat frame.
A summary of both restraint and fixture methods is summarized below:
Rearward Facing Child Restraint System:
Rearward facing child restraint systems are designed so the child is facing towards the rear of the vehicle when driving. They give the best support and protection to a child’s head and neck in the event of a collision. All children below the age of one should be seated in a rearward facing child restraint system. Continue to use a rearward-facing child restraint system for as long as a child fits within the height and weight limits permitted by the child restraint system manufacturer.
Forward Facing Child Restraint System:
Forward facing child restraint systems are designed so the child is facing towards the front of the vehicle when driving. In a forward facing child restraint seat, a three point harness incorporated in child restraint system secures the child. Keep a child in a forward facing child restraint system until they reach the height or weight limit permitted by the restraint system manufacturer. Once a child exceeds the recommended height and weight of a forward facing child restraint system a booster seat is recommended.
Booster Seats Child Restraint System:
A booster seat child restraint system is used when a child exceeds the height or weight limit of a forward facing child restraint system. Booster seats are designed to work in conjunction with vehicle’s existing seat belt system. A booster seat positions a child’s body to ensure correct routing of a seat belt across the shoulder and lap areas, avoiding contact with the face, neck and stomach.
A child should remain in a booster seat until they exceed restraint system recommendations.
WARNING
Always read and follow the instructions provided by the manufacturer of the Child Restraint System.
Failure to follow all warnings and instructions could increase the risk of the serious injury or death if an accident occurs.
Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with only the lap strap of the seat belt.
Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with a seat belt that is slack or twisted.
Do not put the safety seat belt under a child’s arm or behind their back.
Do not use pillows, books or towels to boost a child’s height.
Compatible Child Restraint Systems – Belted Type
Permissible options for fitting a belted Child Restraint System:
Weight and Age class
Seating position
Front passenger seat
(Airbag OFF)
Front passenger seat
(Airbag ON)
Rear outboard seats
Rear center seat
Group 0+: up to 13kg
U  1
X
U  2
U  3
Group I: 9 to 18kg
U  1
X
U  2
U  3
Group II: 15 to 25kg
U  1
X
U  2
U  3
Group III: 22 to 36kg
U  1
X
U  2
U  3
X:  No child restraint system permitted in this position
U  1  :  Suitable for universal category child restraint system approved for use in this group. Adjust the front passenger seat to it’s maximum height and as far rearward as possible. If fitting a forward facing child restraint system adjust the front seat back angle to its most upright position to ensure there is good contact and no gap between the seat back and the child restraint system.
U  2  :  Suitable for universal category child restraint system approved for use in this group. If a rear facing child restraint system is fitted move the front seat forwards or adjust it’s backrest to ensure no interference between the child restraint system and the front seat.
U  3  :  Suitable for universal category forward facing child-restraints approved for use in this group. Do not install a child restraint system equipped with a support leg in the rear centre seat position.
ISOFIX Size Class and Seat Device Definition:
A - ISO/F3
Forward-facing child restraint system for children of maximum size in 9 to 18 kg weight class.
B - ISO/F2
Forward-facing child restraint system for small children in 9 to 18 kg weight class.
B1 - ISO/F2X
Forward-facing child restraint system for small children in 9 to 18 kg weight class.
C - ISO/R3
Rear-facing child restraint system for children of maximum size in the weight class up to 18 kg.
D - ISO/R2
Rear-facing child restraint system for small children in the weight class up to 18 kg.
E - ISO/R1
Rear-facing child restraint system for young children in the weight class up to 13 kg.
F - ISO/B2
Forward Facing booster seat for children of maximum size in 9 to 18 weight class.
NOTE
ISOFIX is an international standard that specifies the attachment points for child safety seats in passenger cars.
Selecting the Appropriate Child Restraint System
Ensure the child restraint system has a label certifying that it meets the applicable safety standards of your country approved in accordance with ECE-R44 or ECE-R129.
Select an appropriate child restraint system based on a child’s height and weight.
Check if the child restraint system to be installed is compatible with the vehicle type.
Ensure that the seating location in the vehicle is suitable for your child restraint system.
Select a child restraint system that fits the vehicle seating position where it will be used.
NOTE
Always read and follow the instructions for installation as specified by the child restraint system manufacturer. If in doubt, contact a professional to complete the installation process.
When the child restraint system is not in use, secure the seat with a seat belt or remove it from the vehicle.
A child restraint system which has been subjected to stress in an accident must be changed immediately before next use.
Recommended Child Restraint Systems
VinFast recommends the following child restraint systems:
Mass Group Categories
Manufacturer
Model
Group 0+
Britax
Britax RömerDualfix Pro
Group I
Britax
Britax Römer Dualfix Pro
Group II
Britax
Römer KIDFIX i-size
Group III
Graco
Graco Booster Basic
CAUTION
Please read and follow the installation instructions carefully when installing a Child Restraint System. If in doubt, contact a professional to complete the installation process.
Child Restraint Installation Locations
Prior to fitment of a child restraint system to the vehicle it is critical to ensure the following:
The child restraint system has a label certifying that it meets the applicable safety standards of your country approved in accordance with ECE-R44 or ECE-R129.
Select an appropriate child restraint system based on a child’s height and weight.
Check if the child restraint system to be installed is compatible with the vehicle type.
Ensure that the seating location in the vehicle is suitable for your child restraint system.
Select a child restraint system that fits the vehicle seating position where it will be used.
For more detail on child restraint systems and their suitability for both your child and vehicle. See >   Child Restraint Systems > Child Restraint Overview  .
Front Passenger Seat Fitment
WARNING
Ensure Front Passenger Airbag is turned OFF when a CRS is fitted to the front passenger seat.
See >   Airbags > Operation and Occupant Detection   for more details.
Refer to the following label located on the sun visors:
With the front passenger airbag suppressed, a forward facing child restraint system may be fitted on the front passenger seat.
The following instructions must be followed when fitting a child restraint system on the front passenger seat:
Position the child restraint system on the front passenger seat ensuring its base is pressed firmly against the seat back.
Avoid any gap between the child restraint system and passenger seat back by adjusting the seat back vertical position.
Position the base of the passenger seat as far rearward as possible.
For a child restraint system in groups 2 and 3, make sure the guide fitting attached to the child restraint system headrest is positioned in front of or level with the seat belt D-ring attached to the vehicle body (B-pillar).
Check that the belt routing through the guide is free of kinks and not bent over the edge of the guide fitting.
If using a rear facing child restraint system with support leg, extend the leg as instructed by the child restraint system manufacturer.
Rear Passenger Seat Fitment
A child restraint system may be fitted to both the rear outboard and rear centre seats depending on fixing type. Refer to the child restraint system overview to determine suitability of seat type in each rear seat location.
See >   Child Restraint Systems > Child Restraint Overview  .
Rear Outboard Fitment - Belted Type
Fully extend the seat belt to its maximum length to engage the automatic locking retractor (ALR).
Buckle the seat belt around the child restraint seat in accordance with the child seat manufacturer’s instructions.
Allow the seat belt to retract and remove all slack in the belt by pushing the child restraint seat into the vehicle’s seat.
If the child restraint seat is equipped with a top tether, attach it to the anchor point located at the rear of the back seat. See top tether section below.
CAUTION  When fitting a rearward facing child restraint system in the rear outboard seat, move the front seat forwards or adjust it’s backrest to ensure no interference between the child restraint system and the front seat.
NOTE
Depending on the vehicle region of sale, a top tether anchor point may not be available in the rear centre seat position.
Rear Outboard Fitment - ISOFIX / i-Size Type
The vehicle has been provided with ISOFIX anchors, which allows compatible child restraint systems to be attached directly to the rear seat structure, rather than using a seatbelt. ISOFIX metal arms on the child restraint attach and lock onto a U-shaped steel bar at the rear of the seat cushion. The ISOFIX anchor points can be identified by ISOFIX markings   found on both outboard rear seats.
Extend the child restraint system latches onto the anchor bars until they click into place. Carefully read and follow the instructions provided by the child safety seat manufacturer.
Always test the safety seat before seating a child. This can be done by pulling the child restraint system away from the seat and moving it from side to side. It is critical that both latches are fully locked in position.
The following is an example of a rear facing ISOFIX attached child restraint system.
Rear Center Fitment - Belted Type
Children can occupy the rear center passenger seat, in a forward facing position only, secured using a belted child restraint system.
NOTE
The rear seat is the safest location for a child to travel.
The rear center seat does not have ISOFIX / i-Size   anchor points
Support Leg (if equipped)
If your Child Restraint System is equipped with a support leg, ensure that it is fully extended and secured to the floor of the vehicle. Support legs can only be used in the rear outboard passenger seat locations. Follow installation instructions as described by the CRS manufacturer.
WARNING
When using a child restraint with a support leg, be sure that it rests firmly on the floor.
Top Tether Straps and Anchor Points
Installation of Top Tether Anchors:
The Top Tether anchors are located at the back of the rear outboard seats of the vehicle.
For Single Strap Tethers - Route the tether strap around the outboard side of the headrest, between the headrest and the seat belt guide and attach to the tether anchor at the back of the seat.
For Dual Strap Tethers - Route the tether straps provided with the child restraint system on either side of the headrest and attach to the tether anchor at the back of the seat.
NOTE
The vehicle has fixed rear headrests, please make sure the top tether strap is routed correctly.
Never route the top tether strap over the top of the headrests.
Please check the table in the child restraint system description.
ISOFIX child restraint systems of universal category positions are marked in the table by IUF. Route, attach, and tighten the top tether according to your child restraint instructions.
WARNING
Please follow the instructions provided by the child restraint system manufacturer to ensure the child is seated safely and securely.
Adjust the seat harness for every child for each vehicle journey.
Make sure that the tether strap does not have any slack or twist.
Always inspect the seat belts, child restraint system belts and tether straps for damage and wear.
Never attach any equipment, harnesses or other items to the anchor points in the vehicle.
Do not use a Forward Facing child restraint system until the child is over 9kg (20 lbs).
The tether straps must be attached to only the tether anchor point and nowhere else. Tighten the tether strap according to the instructions provided by the manufacturer.
Never attach two child restraint systems to one anchor point as it may be incapable of securing both seats in an accident.
Before installing a child restraint system, be sure to confirm that the seat back is fully upright and securely locked into place. Otherwise, in an accident, serious injury or death could result.
Never use a child safety seat that has been involved in an accident. Have the seat inspected or replaced as described in the child safety seat manufacturer’s instructions.
Do not use seat belt extenders on a seat belt that is being used to install a child safety seat or booster seat.
Do not hold babies or infants on a passenger’s lap. All children must be securely restrained in the vehicle using a child restraint system.
Never leave children unattended inside the vehicle.

## Airbags

Airbags
The vehicle is equipped with Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) airbags and lap/shoulder seat belts for the driver and all vehicle passengers. The airbags are designed to provide maximum protection in conjunction with fastened seat belts. All occupants must wear seat belts at all times to minimize the risk of serious injury or death in an event of a vehicle collision.
NOTE
Airbags by design may not necessarily deploy following every vehicle collision. A correctly fastened seatbelt maybe the only restraint system protecting the occupant in such cases.
Airbag Locations
Drivers and Passenger Airbags
Front Seat Side Airbags (Left & Right)
Curtain Airbags
Rear Seat Side Airbags (Left & Right)
Front Seat Middle Airbag (if equipped)
Knee Airbag
How Airbags work
The airbag system consists of:
Airbag modules.
Occupant Classification System (OCS).
Crash sensors, monitoring system and airbag indicator   (shows the operational status of airbags).
The supplement restraint system constantly monitors multiple vehicle sensor inputs to determine the severity of a vehicle collision and which airbags, if any, should deploy. ﻿An airbag will inflate rapidly with force when activated accompanied by a loud noise. After the deployment of the airbags it is common for a smoke or powder like discharge to be present inside the vehicle.﻿ The inflated airbag, along with properly fastened seat belts, limits occupant motion and reduces the risk of injury through contact with vehicle interior components.
It is possible that airbags may not deploy as a result of minor or underbody collisions or impacts with narrow objects. There can be significant superficial damage to the vehicle without resulting in airbag deployment and conversely, relatively small structural damage can trigger the airbags to deploy. Therefore, the external appearance of the vehicle after a collision is not indicative of whether or not the front airbags should have inflated.
NOTE
When an airbag is deployed, powder like dust particles may be released into the vehicle cabin. This is not an indication of a vehicle fire. The fine dust may cause skin or eye irritation and could cause breathing difficulties. To avoid such effects leave the vehicle when safe to do so if able or alternatively open windows or doors. It is advisable to wash your hands and face with a mild soap and water to reduce effects.
Passenger Front Airbag Status
When the front passenger seat airbag is deactivated, an   icon will be displayed at the top corner of the Infotainment screen and to indicate the front passenger airbag is ON,   icon will be displayed on the Infotainment screen.
NOTE
The front passenger airbag is automatically controlled by Occupant Detection Sensor fitted to the vehicle’s front passenger seat. The airbag can not be manually deactivated.
WARNING
It is important for all vehicle occupants to wear a correctly fitted seatbelt at all times even when an airbag system is provided. Failing to wear a seatbelt can cause serious injury or death.
Do not sit unnecessarily close to any airbag deployment zone. The driver should maintain a recommended distance from the steering wheel while still maintaining control of the vehicle.
Do not place objects, stickers or mount equipment/accessories on or near the airbag deployment zones. Failure to follow these instructions may increase the risk of injury or death in the event of an accident.
To ensure that the airbag system will operate correctly, never place your feet on the dashboard, outside the window, or on seat surfaces.
Various components of the airbag system are located throughout your vehicle. Incorrect work or repairs could damage the airbag system components. As a result, in the event of an accident, the airbags may deploy incorrectly or won’t deploy altogether, causing serious or fatal injuries.
The airbag system is only able to provide protection during a single collision. In the event of a subsequent collision, the airbag system will not redeploy. Once an airbag deploys contact an Authorized VinFast Service Center to have the vehicle appropriately repaired.
Use of unauthorized accessory seat covers could prevent airbag deployment and increase risk of injury in an accident.
Do not lean your head on the door. You could risk getting injured from the deployment of airbags from the side of the seat back.
All passengers need to sit upright, centered in on the seat cushion with a seatbelt correctly fastened, legs extended with feet on the floor. Failure to do so could result in serious injury upon airbag deployment.
Modifying the vehicle may affect the functioning of the airbag system. Contact a VinFast Service Center prior to performing any modifications to your vehicle. Any unauthorized modifications to the vehicle may cause serious damage to critical systems and endanger occupant’s lives.
If the front passenger airbag is not deactivating either when a child restraint system is fitted or the seat is unoccupied there may be a fault with the Occupant Detection system. If you suspect incorrect operation of the occupant detection system do not use the front passenger seat and contact VinFast service immediately. Failing to follow this warning may cause serious injury or death of the occupant.
All children of age 12 and under are recommended to occupy the rear seats only. Failing to follow this warning may cause serious injury or death.
It is not recommended to install a child restraint system to the front passenger seat even if legally permitted. If however a child restraint system must be fitted in this location, ensure the front passenger airbag OFF icon   is present and remains illuminated at all times on the touchscreen. Fitment of a child restraint system in the front passenger seat with an active airbag can cause serious injury or death in an event of airbag deployment.
Children and Airbags
Children of 12 years and under should always be properly restrained in the rear seats of the vehicle. According to accident statistics, children are safer when properly restrained in the rear seats compared to the front passenger seat.
WARNING
Rearward-facing child restraints must not be placed in front of active airbags. Failure to follow this instruction could result in personal injury or death.
Types of Airbags
Front Airbags
The vehicle is fitted with both a driver and passenger front airbag. The driver’s airbag is located in the center of the steering wheel and the passenger airbag is located in the dashboard area. Both airbag deployment locations have AIRBAG identifiers.
How the Front Airbags are triggered:
The driver and front passenger airbags are designed to deploy during significant frontal collisions, minimizing the risk of injury to the head and shoulder region.
NOTE
The front airbags will not deploy during rear or side impact collisions. In such cases only the front seatbelt pre-tensioners will be activated.
WARNING
Avoid leaning against the door or the console area while vehicle is in motion.
Make sure that nothing is in between the passenger and airbag deployment area as it may interfere with airbag deployment.
The airbags are part of the supplementary restraint system and are designed to accompany the seatbelt in protecting the occupants from injury in the upper body. The airbags inflate rapidly so maintaining a proper seating position is of utmost importance to prevent incurring injury once an airbag deploys.
Side Airbags
The vehicle is fitted with side airbags to protect both front and rear seated passengers. The side airbags are located on the outermost side of each front and rear seat backrest with four in total. These airbags protect the occupants in case of a side impact or rollover event. The side airbag deployment zones are marked with an AIRBAG label.
NOTE
Pre tensioners in the seat belt may be activated in an event of an accident and are designed to further restrict the motion of the occupant.
How the Side Airbags are triggered:
In the event of a side impact the supplement restraint system may deploy the vehicle side airbags. Due to the small distance between the passenger and the door, the side airbags will inflate rapidly. Side airbags are designed to reduce the risks of injuries to the head and upper body.
NOTE
Airbags may not be deployed in the event of a rear end collision. Both front seatbelt pre-tensioners however will be activated.
Safety belts and the vehicle airbag system will provide protection only when occupants are correctly seated.
WARNING
Keep objects clear of airbag deployment zones or near the side door glass as it may cause a serious injury or death when airbags deploy.
Do not bang, kick or hammer the side of the vehicle when the vehicle is on. Such actions may cause side airbags to deploy.
Curtain Airbags
The vehicle is equipped with two curtain airbags mounted in the roof headliners above the doors. Curtain airbags are marked with an AIRBAG label, located on the door pillar. They are designed to protect passengers in case of severe side impacts, vehicle roll-overs or offset frontal crashes.
How the Curtain Airbags are triggered:
When the airbag sensors detects a severe side collision or vehicle roll over the curtain airbags will be triggered.
The curtain airbags help to reduce the risk of injury to the head and neck area of the passenger.
WARNING
Avoid attaching any object near the area which covers the deployment zone of the curtain airbags.
Passengers must be seated close to the back of their seat with a correctly fastened seat belt to obtain the best protection from the curtain airbag.
Never try to open or repair any components of the side curtain air bag system. If necessary, have the system serviced by a professional workshop.
CAUTION
If a severe side impact collision occurs the curtain airbags will deploy even if there are no passengers seated.
After an Airbag deployment, the HV battery of the vehicle will be automatically disconnected.
Knee Airbags
The vehicle is equipped with two knee airbags, one each for the driver and front passenger. The airbags are located below the steering wheel and in the lower part of the dashboard respectively. The knee airbag is designed to provide additional protection to the driver and front passenger’s knees and lower body during a collision.
How the Knee Airbags are triggered:
When the airbag sensors detect a collision, the knee airbag may activate according to the severity of the crash.
Knee airbags and the front airbags deploy simulatenously.
The front airbag performance is enhanced by the addition of the knee airbags which limit the forward motion of the front seat passenger by restricting leg movement.
Knee airbags help to reduce impact forces sustained by the lower leg and abdomen region through controlling lower body movement. To ensure optimal performance of the airbag system a correct seating position is critical. Always fasten your seat belt correctly and keep a safe distance between the dashboard and your seated position. See >   Seats > Correct and Incorrect Seating Positions.
WARNING
Always make sure that the knee airbag can inflate without interference. Objects between you and the airbag can increase the risk of injury in an accident by interfering with the way the airbag deploys.
Front Seat Middle Airbag (if equipped)
The vehicle may equipped with one front seat middle airbag which is mounted on the inboard side of the drivers front seat. It is designed to create a soft barrier between the driver and front passenger during severe side collisions and reduce the risk of head collisions.
How the Front Seat Middle Airbag is triggered:
The supplement restraint system will use numerous vehicle sensors to determine the severity of a vehicle collision and whether or not the front seat middle airbag should deploy.
WARNING
Avoid keeping objects over the airbag, this can cause serious injury or death when the airbags deploy.
Operation & Occupant Detection
Airbag Warning Indicator
The airbag warning indicator is located on the top left-hand corner of the Car Control Area section of the touchscreen. The airbag warning indicator will illuminate for a few seconds during vehicle startup, then turn off. During a malfunction with the vehicle airbag system however, the warning indicator light   will remain on or will constantly flash. It is recommended that you immediately contact a VinFast Service Center when this occurs to have your vehicle inspected.
The following situations can cause the airbag warning indicator to illuminate:
Faulty Airbag sensor(s)
Airbag battery out of power
Defective Airbag coil
Airbag module malfunction
Faulty seat belt latch
Occupant Detection Status
Passenger Airbag Suppression for CRS (Child Restraint System)
The vehicle is fitted with an Occupant Classification sensor in the front passenger seat which can automatically detect and distinguish between an adult or child occupying the seat and will adjust the airbag status and deployment accordingly. If an adult occupies the seat the passenger airbag will be On, if a child or child restraint system occupies the seat the passenger airbag may be disabled and turn Off.
Please follow the recommendations to ensure correct occupant detection:
Sit in an upright position in the seat with shoulders and back against the seat back and legs extended in front with feet on the floor. See >   Seats > Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions
Fasten the seatbelt.
Remain seated correctly at all times.
The following situations can cause an inaccurate Occupant detection status:
Placing large or heavy items on the front passenger seat.
Placing powered electrical devices which may interfere with the front passenger seat sensor.
Incorrectly fitting a CRS system.
Items located under the seat or wedged between the cushion and seat back.
Any unauthorized accessories fitted to the seat.
NOTE
See >   Child Restraint Systems Overview   for child seats safety.
It is recommended that all children 12 years and under must be seated in the rear seats of the vehicle.
WARNING
If the front passenger seat airbag status is not turning On or Off as expected when the seat is occupied, do not allow any passengers to occupy the seat until it has been inspected and rectified by an Authorized VinFast Service Center.
Do not modify the front seat in any way, to ensure accuracy of the occupant detection system.
If it is legal in your region to have a child seated on the front passenger seat, ensure the passenger airbag is not active. Otherwise it could cause serious injury or death in the event of an accident when deployed.
It is the drivers responsibility to ensure the passenger airbag status is Off if a child is occupying the front seat.
When the front passenger seat airbag is deactivated, an   icon will be displayed at the top corner of the Infotainment screen and to indicate the front passenger airbag is ON,   icon will be displayed on the Infotainment screen.
Warning label:
A warning label is located on the inner side of the passenger side sun visor regarding the Passenger Airbag and the dangers involved when used in conjunction with a child restraint system mounted in the front passenger seat during an airbag deployment.
WARNING
Never use a rearward facing child restraint on a seat protected by an active Airbag as death or serious injury to the child could occur.
Never place a rear facing child restraint in the front passenger seat, unless the passenger-side air bag is deactivated. An inflating passenger side air bag could impact the rear facing child restraint and cause death or serious injury.
When children are seated in the rear outboard seats of a vehicle equipped with side and curtain air bags, be sure to install the child restraint system as far away from the door side as possible, and securely lock the child restraint system in position. Inflation of side and curtain air bags could cause serious injury or death to an infant or child.
Airbag Operation
Safe Seating position
See >   Correct and Incorrect Seating positions.
Airbag inflation conditions:
The vehicle is equipped with accelerometers and sensors that in the event of an accident occurring calculate the impact on the vehicle and determine whether an airbag would be deployed. Other factors also related to density and stiffness of the impacted vehicle or objects maybe considered.
Airbags inflate when the following situations occur:
Front airbags typically inflate in a frontal collision by detecting sufficient impact intensity of the front collision or impact sensors.
Side Airbags activate depending on the severity of an impact to the side of the vehicle as detected by the side collision sensor.
CAUTION
Airbags can be deployed if bumps or objects on unimproved roads or sidewalks severely impact the vehicle chassis.
Airbag non-inflation conditions:
Airbags may not be deployed in certain situations even if vehicle damaged occurs.
Airbags may not inflate when the following situations occur:
In certain low-speed collisions the airbags may be deemed unnecessary to provide additional protection beyond the use of seat belts.
When the impact of the collision is concentrated in a small area of the vehicle and there is no additional benefit if airbags were to be deployed.
Front air bags may not inflate in a rear end collision as occupants will be moved backward by the force of the impact.
Front airbags will not inflate in rollover accidents as front airbag deployment will not provide additional passenger protection.

# Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS)


## Cruise Control

Adaptive Cruise Control (if equipped)
Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) is an advanced driver assistance system that automatically adjusts vehicle speed to maintain a safe following distance to other road users ahead. The system uses a combination of radar and forward facing camera to maintain a safe and comfortable distance to vehicles ahead and can even stop and start the vehicle in congested traffic through control of the brake and throttle. ACC will maintains a clearance to a forward vehicle, or maintains the set speed, whichever speed is lower.
Objects that Adaptive Cruise Control can detect:
Cars
Trucks
Motorbikes
Bicycle
Buses
Vans
Camper Vans
Adaptive Cruise Control Operation
ACC Controls Overview:
Resume and Cancel button
Speed increase button
Gap increase button
ACC Set
Speed decrease button
Gap decrease button
To turn on Adaptive Cruise Control:
To turn on ACC, users can press on ACC button on the steering wheel.
When ACC activated: Set speed will display with blue color and the leading vehicle will be highlighted (if detected).
NOTE
You can activate the Adaptive Cruise Control system when vehicle speed is greater than 20 km/h (12.42 mph) and lower than 150km/h (93 mph).
To Resume ACC to a previous SET speed:
Press the  RES    button on the steering wheel controls.
To adjust ACC speed:
To increase the set speed, press the  SPD+  button  .
To decrease the set speed, press the  SPD-  button  .
NOTE
You can increase or decrease the speed in larger increments by pressing and holding the speed buttons   or  .
The minimum set speed is 20 km/h and maximum is 150 km/h.
To adjust the gap to the vehicle ahead:
To increase the gap, press the  GAP+  button  .
To decrease the gap, press the  GAP-  button  .
NOTE
Vehicle gap will default to the largest setting after vehicle restart.
The ACC system will be canceled by:
Pressing the cancel  CAN    button on the steering wheel controls.
Pressing the Brake pedal.
When the vehicle speed is > 150km/h (93 mph).
ACC Stop & Go Operation
During Stop & Go operation, if the vehicle has stopped due to detecting stationary traffic ahead the driver must manually resume ACC when stopped for 3 seconds or more. If the stop is under 3 seconds the system will automatically resume operation.
Additional considerations:
If the vehicle ahead is stationary the ACC system may hold the vehicle for up to 5 minutes. The driver can still resume ACC at any time.
The driver must press the throttle pedal or  RES  button in order to reactivate ACC if the holding time is between 3 seconds and 5 minutes.
If the vehicle is required to hold for more than 5 minutes the electronic parking brake will automatically apply and the driver will need to release the parking brake or press the throttle to release it. Once the parking brake has been released, ACC can be reactivated by pressing the  RES  or  ACC  buttons on the steering wheel controls.
Due to the limitations induced by environmental conditions the front radar or camera may not be able to detect stationary objects when traveling above 60km/h (37 mph).
If the front camera or radar is obscured the ACC Stop & Go function will not be available.
If the holding time is between 3 seconds and 5﻿ minutes, and if there is no lead vehicle in front, the driver needs to press the throttle pedal or use the resume button to reactivate ACC.
CAUTION
The driver must alway monitor vehicle behaviour and road ahead when ACC is active and be prepared to take full control of the vehicle at anytime. When ACC is activated the driver is still required to provide all steering control.
NOTE
Adaptive Cruise Control can be used in combination with Speed Limit Control Function. See >   Cruise Control > Intelligent Speed Adaptation.
Adaptive Cruise Control Modes
Follow Mode:
When Follow Mode is active, the ACC system will detect a leading vehicle with a speed lower than the ACC set speed.
In follow mode, ACC will adjust the vehicle speed according to the relative distance and relative speed of the detected leading vehicle. If another vehicle happens to cut in front and reduce this distance, ACC will apply brakes to slow the vehicle speed and reestablish a safe following distance.
ACC will also adjust the following distance or gap to the vehicle in front based on changes to the driver’s preferred gap setting.
Corner Limit Mode:
Corner Limit Mode limits vehicle acceleration in a corner based on detected lateral acceleration, yaw rate and driving speed to ensure vehicle traction and stability through a bend.
Overtaking Mode:
When following a leading vehicle, ACC may detect that the driver wishes to overtake the vehicle in front when the turn indicator is selected. Once detected ACC will then accelerate and allow the gap to the vehicle in front to momentarily decrease. This allows for a quick and safe overtaking manoever and the set gap setting and vehicle speed will be restored once overtaking is complete.
WARNING
Overtaking mode will operate only when suitable conditions are met. Always check vehicle lane markings and road conditions ahead prior to overtaking.
The driver is always responsible for vehicle speed and the distance to other vehicles ahead.
Always pay attention to the traffic around you even when adaptive cruise control is enabled.
Do not use Adaptive Cruise Control in following situations:
In urban areas.
Roads with multiple successive bends.
When the road surface is in poor condition.
In bad weather (such as ice, fog, gravel, heavy rain).
On expressway exits.
In construction zones.
Roads with steep slopes over 15%
While towing (if available)
CAUTION
Always ensure that the front camera and radar are in good condition and clear of debris.
Adaptive Cruise Control will not apply the brake if the throttle is depressed. Applying the throttle pedal when ACC is engaged will override speed and distance control and may surpass regulatory speed limits and a safee distance to road users ahead.
Adaptive Cruise Control may not detect pedestrians, animals, bicycles etc that cross the vehicle’s path.
The function of the radar sensors and camera can be impacted by reflective objects and surfaces such as guard rails, the entrance to a tunnel, heavy rain or ice.
WARNING
Always pay attention to the traffic conditions around you and if necessary depress the brake pedal to reduce your driving speed in order to maintain a safe distance.
Always drive according to the posted speed limit or environmental conditions of the road.
ACC may not adapt to complex, unexpected or sudden driving situations. Always be ready to take control of the vehicle in such situations.
Always be aware of the set speed and vehicle distance gap.
The vehicle speed may increase/decrease when travelling on a slope.
Always be ready to take control of the vehicle if a vehicle suddenly cuts into the vehicle’s lane.
Do not use or activate this feature when towing anything such as trailer, recreational vehicles, etc. Failure to comply may result in property damage, serious injury or death.
Intelligent Speed Adaptation﻿ (if equiqqed)
Intelligent Speed Adaptation (ISA) (if available) is a driver assistance feature that prevents a vehicle exceeding a detected speed limit and helps to reduce driver workload.
When the system is activated in combination with Adaptive Cruise Control or Highway Assist, Intelligent Speed Adaptation automatically limits the vehicle set-speed to match the detected speed limit.
The driver must always ensure they monitor all posted speed limits and be prepared to adjust vehicle speed at any time. As a driver assistance system, the function will only support the driver in adjusting vehicle speed based on what is detected. The driver always remains responsible for ensuring the vehicle does not exceed the legal speed limit or road conditions.
NOTE
This function can be used in combination with Highway Assist and Adaptive Cruise Control. It is not a standalone feature.
Traffic Sign Recognition (TSR) must be ON in order to enable Intelligent Speed Adaptation (ISA).
For optimal performance of Traffic Sign Recognition, Speed Limit Warning (SLW), and Intelligent Speed Adaptation (ISA), especially in regions mandating intelligent speed assistance systems both GPS and Internet connectivity are required.
Note that if there is a loss of GPS and/or Internet connection, this may degrade the performance of these key functionalities or temporarily disable TSR, SLW, and ISA.
TSR, SLW, and ISA may not be available in all regions/markets. For detailed information on availability and coverage zones, please contact a VinFast dealership.
ISA may not work if the absolute delta (between TSR the speed limit value and the driver’s set speed) is more than 50 km/h
To activate/deactivate Intelligent Speed Adaptation:
To activate/deactivate the Intelligent Speed Adaptation system, press the ISA   button on the steering wheel. The set speed icon will be shown on the touchscreen and Head Up Display with a circle   indicating that ISA is now active.​
Whenever a new speed limit value is detected, short press the ISA button to adapt the set speed to the new speed limit.
A white fill set speed icon will be shown when the set speed is identical to the detected speed limit  .
System Malfunctions
A malfunction warning will be triggered when a failure is detected in the ISA system or with other related ADAS systems and will be shown on the touchscreen to notify the driver.
CAUTION
Always make sure that all cameras, sensors and radars are clean and in working condition.
WARNING
Do not rely on the Intelligent Speed Adaptation feature to control vehicle speed.
The Intelligent Speed Adaptation relies on speed limit information from the Traffic Sign Recognition system. The Traffic Sign Recognition system may not detect posted speed signs in poor weather, if signs are poorly posted or covered. The system will also be impacted when the front camera is blocked by dirt, snow, or ice; if they are in poor condition; or due to sun glare.
Always set the vehicle speed to the speed limit specific to the road, street, highway/motorway, etc of your country.
Intelligent Speed Adaptation is a driving assist system, the driver has full responsibility to maintain the speed and control of the vehicle at all times.
Always keep an eye on the road for vehicles or objects that may suddenly appear in front of you. If necessary, depress the brake pedal to reduce your driving speed in order to maintain a safe distance.
Always be aware of the set speed.
The vehicle speed may increase/decrease when travelling on a slope.
NOTE
On roads with conditional speed limits (e.g., based on time of day or weather conditions) specified in the map data, a second speed limit is displayed below the first. The driver is responsible for checking which speed limit is appropriate and may need to adjust their driving speed accordingly. You may need to update the map on the vehicle to display conditional speed limits.
Traffic Sign Recognition (if equipped)
The Traffic Sign Recognition System (TSR) assists the driver by notifying them of the current posted speed limit and other traffic signs. Traffic signs may be displayed to the driver via the Touchscreen and the Head Up Display.
In addition, the system may also detect other non-speed related traffic signs. An example of these may include:
Bicycle paths
Expressways
Tunnels
Slippery roads
Pedestrian crossings.
Traffic sign icons can be displayed on Car Control Area and Head Up Display. For more information, see >   Car Control Area Overview   and   Head Up Display  .
How Traffic Sign Recognition Works
Traffic Sign Recognition uses a camera mounted on the front windscreen and recognition software to detect traffic signs on the road ahead. The system then displays this information on the touchscreen and/or Head Up Display in front of the driver.﻿ Speed Limits may also be sourced from ISA map data (region specific). When Adaptive Cruise Control is active and the Intelligent Speed Adaptation button is pressed, the vehicle’s speed will be automatically adjusted as per the detected speed sign and the user configured speed offset value currently set. For more information see >   Cruise Control > Intelligent Speed Adaption.
Some examples of traffic signs the system may recognize:
Traffic Sign
Display
Speed Limit
No Entry
Residential Zone
Highway Zone
Town Zone
End of Town Zone
Express Way
Bicycle Way
NOTE
Traffic Signs shown above are for reference only. The vehicle will detect and show traffic signs on the touchscreen based on the region of operation.
Traffic Signs may not be the same for all regions.
Traffic Sign Recognition System Limitations
TSR system performance may be impacted in the following conditions:
Poor visibility due to snow, fog or heavy rain.
Galare from oncoming traffic or the sun.
Travel at high speeds.
If the camera’s visual field is covered; e.g. dirt or stickers.
If the traffic signs are completely or partially covered.
If traffic signs do not conform to the standard format.
If traffic signs are damaged or bent.
If traffic signs are displayed on sign holders with electronic signs.
If the traffic signs or the roadways have changed and the navigation data is no longer up-to-date.
To Activate/Deactivate Traffic Sign Recognition:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Tap  Driver Aids   > Driving Assistance   > Speed .
Go to Traffic sign recognition.Tap  On/OFF  on the toggle button.
WARNING
Vehicle speed and safety always remains the responsibility of the driver. Always pay attention and observe traffic signs while driving.
Under certain circumstances, traffic sign recognition may not detect traffic signs correctly or detect them at all. As a result, the system may not display the correct speed limit.
CAUTION
The speed limit sign displayed in Car Control Area / Head Up Display is based on the units used (mph or km/h) in the country where the vehicle is being operated. This may differ from the unit of speed displayed on the vehicle’s speedometer.
NOTE
Traffic Sign Recognition is ON by default.
The Traffic Sign Recognition system only displays the traffic sign icons on the Infotainment screen and Head Up Display (if equipped). It will not adjust vehicle speed. Please activate Intelligent Speed Adaption to enable this functionality.
For optimal performance of Traffic Sign Recognition, Speed Limit Warning (SLW), and Intelligent Speed Adaptation (ISA), especially in regions mandating intelligent speed assistance systems like the European Union, both GPS and Internet connectivity are required.
Note that if there is a loss of GPS and/or Internet connection, this may degrade the performance of these key functionalities or temporarily disable TSR, SLW, and ISA.
TSR, SLW, and ISA may not be available in all regions/markets. For detailed information on availability and coverage zones, please contact a VinFast dealership.
Cruise Control﻿ (if equipped)
Cruise Control (CC) is a system that automatically adjusts vehicle speed. CC will maintain a chosen set speed﻿﻿.
Cruise Controls Overview:
Resume and Cancel button
Speed increase button
Speed decrease button
Cruise Control (CC) Set
WARNING
Always make sure that a speed is maintained within the prescribed speed limit. Observe all traffic and road conditions. Driving at unsafe speeds increases the risk of an accident.
Do not use Cruise Control where a constant road speed cannot be maintained, such as heavy or varying traffic, winding, slippery or unpaved roads.
The Cruise Control only use the Regenerative braking. When traveling downhill, the vehicle’s speed may exceed the set cruising speed and driver intervention may be required.
To turn Cruise Control ON﻿:
Press the CC Button   on the steering wheel. The Car Control Area will display the cruise control icon. The same button will also turn the system off.
Press the  SPD-  or  SPD+  button to activate. Set speed will be shown.
NOTE
Cruise Control System is only available when vehicle speed is 30km/h or more.
To adjust ACC speed:
To increase the set speed, press the  SPD+  button  .
To decrease the set speed, press the  SPD-  button  .
NOTE
You can increase or decrease the speed in larger increments by pressing and holding the speed buttons   or  .
The CC system will be canceled by:
Pressing the cancel  RES/CAN    button on the steering wheel controls.﻿
Pressing the Brake pedal.
Turning off Cruise Control.
Resuming a set speed:
When the Cruise Control is cancelled by pressing the RES/CAN button or by pressing the brake pedal, the previously set speed can be restored. Once the vehicle speed reaches 30km/h or more, pressing RES/CAN button inline Rectangle will gradually accelerate the vehicle to the previous set speed. If cruise control or the vehicle is switched off, the set speed will be deleted from memory.
CAUTION
The driver must supervise the system under all conditions and must take control of the vehicle at any time.
WARNING
The RES/CAN button should only be pressed when the driver is aware of the set speed. Pressing RES/CAN accidentally may lead to a loss of control of the vehicle resulting in personal injury or vehicle damage.
Speed Limiter﻿ (if equipped)
Speed Limiter is a system that limit vehicle velocity following the speed set on the steering wheel control. ﻿﻿Activating Speed Limiter (SL) would establish the maximum speed to prevent vehicle accelerating over the set speed.
Speed Limiter Overview:
Resume and Cancel button
Speed increase button
Speed decrease button
Speed Limiter (SL) Set
WARNING
Always make sure that a speed is maintained within the prescribed speed limit. Observe all traffic and road conditions. Driving at unsafe speeds increases the risk of an accident.
The SL only use the Regenerative braking. When traveling downhill, the vehicle’s speed may exceed the set cruising speed and driver intervention may be required.
To turn Speed Limiter ON﻿:
Press the Button   on the steering wheel. The Car Control Area will display the Speed Limiter icon.
Press the  SPD- button    or  SPD+  button   to activate. Set speed will be shown near Speed limiter icon.
NOTE
Speed Limiter System is only available when vehicle speed is 30km/h or more.
To adjust SL speed:
To increase the set speed, press the  SPD+  button  .
To decrease the set speed, press the  SPD-  button  .
NOTE
You can increase or decrease the speed in larger increments by pressing and holding the speed buttons   or  .
The SL system will be canceled by:
Pressing the cancel  RES/CAN    button on the steering wheel controls.﻿
Presing SL button to ﻿turn off SL.
Pressing the Accelerator pedal hardly (override)
Resuming a set speed:
When the SL is cancelled by pressing the RES/CAN button or by pressing the brake pedal, the previously set speed can be restored. Once the vehicle speed reaches 30km/h or more, pressing RES/CAN button will gradually accelerate the vehicle to the previous set speed. If SL or the vehicle is switched off, the set speed will be deleted from memory.
CAUTION
The driver must supervise the system under all conditions and must take control of the vehicle at any time.
WARNING
The RES/CAN button should only be pressed when the driver is aware of the set speed. Pressing RES/CAN accidentally may lead to a loss of control of the vehicle resulting in personal injury or vehicle damage.
To Activate/Deactivate Speed Limit Warning:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.﻿
Tap  Driver Aids   > Driving Assistance   > Speed .﻿
Go to Speed Limit Warning.Tap  On/OFF  on the toggle button﻿.
Tap on the chime toggle to Mute/Unmute audio chime (audible warning).
The driver can also apply a speed offset above a detected speed limit. Press + and - buttons to increase or decrease the offset in speed base.

## Driving Aids

Highway Assist (if equipped)
Highway Assist is a driver assistance function that supports the driver during highway driving and congested traffic conditions (traffic jams) supporting a safe and comfortable journey. Highway Assist adjusts the vehicle speed to match the flow of the traffic. It also adjusts the steering to keep the vehicle inside its lane boundaries.
NOTE
Highway Assist is designed to be used on highways and highway-like roads (roadways separated by constructional means) and it is the responsibility of the driver to use this function in appropriate road conditions.
Drivers are required to keep their hands on the steering wheel at all times while this feature is active.
This feature can be used in combination with Intelligent Speed Adaptation.
The driver must supervise the system under all conditions and is always ultimately responsible for control of the vehicle.
The function is available when the following conditions are met:
Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) conditions are fulfilled.
Vehicle speed is greater than 0 km/h (0 mph) less than 150 km/h (93 mph).
Two-lane markings and the leading vehicle are detected.
Lane width must be within the range of 2.6 m (8.5 ft) and 4.3 m (14 ft).
The gear position must not be reverse.
Driver hands-on conditions are satisfied.
WARNING
Keep your hands on the steering wheel at all times when driving.
The Highway Assist function is designed to assist the driver in operating the vehicle and is not a fully autonomous driving system. Whenever a driver uses an assistive technology, he or she should always check to ensure conditions are suitable and if necessary, take appropriate measures to adjust vehicle speed or direction.
Ensure the road ahead is observed at all times and traffic laws followed.
In no event will the vehicle manufacturer be responsible for a driver’s actions that cause a violation of traffic rules or an accident.
The vehicle may drift to one side or may depart from the driving lane when it is driven at high speed or on a curve.
It is not recommended to use or activate this feature when towing anything such as a trailer, recreational vehicles, etc. Failure to comply may result in property damage, serious injury or death. Failure to comply may result in property damage, serious injury or death.
Highway Assist Features
Highway Assist consists of three main components:
Adaptive Cruise Control  - See >   Cruise Control > Adaptive Cruise Control.
Lane Centering Control  - Assists in keeping the vehicle centered in its lane by applying small corrective steering inputs.
Highway Assist Operation
To activate Highway Assist
Press the Highway Assist button present on the steering wheel  .
After activation, the Highway Assist icon will display in blue﻿  .
To adjust gap:
When a vehicle ahead passes in front of your vehicle or a slower vehicle is detected ahead, the vehicle speed will be adjusted to maintain the current gap setting. To adjust the gap setting:
To increase the gap, press the  GAP+  button  .
To decrease the gap, press the  GAP-  button  .
To adjust speed:
If you have switched the system on, you can set or change the set speed using the speed buttons present on the steering wheel.
To increase the set speed, press the  SPD+  button  .
To decrease the set speed, press the  SPD-  button  .
NOTE
Long pressing of the speed increase/decrease button will rapidly increase or decrease the set speed.
Highway Assist Deactivation
If preconditions are not met, Highway Assist may either be deactivated or revert to degraded mode (Adaptive Cruise Control only). An appropriate notification will be displayed in Car Control Area when Highway Assist changes modes or is deactivated.
Highway Assist can also be deactivated at anytime by:
Pressing the brake pedal.
Press the Cancel button on the steering wheel.
Highway Assist may revert to degraded mode when:
Lane markings are not detected OR
Direct sunlight may interfere with the front camera.
Once conditions permit, Highway Assist will automatically revert to full functionality and will be indicated by the blue Highway Assist icon on Car Control Area  .
WARNING
When Highway Assist reverts to degraded mode, the Highway Assist icon will turn grey    . Adaptive Cruise Control will now be active without steering wheel intervention.
When Highway Assist reverts to degraded mode, the driver must take full control of the steering wheel.
Traffic Jam Assist
Traffic Jam Assist (TJA) (if available) is an extension of Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) and Lane Centering Control that automatically controls vehicle speed and lane position based on traffic conditions ahead. The system helps alleviate some of the fatigue associated with driving in slow moving traffic that is constantly stopping and starting. Traffic Jam Assist uses both camera and radar along with steering wheel input to track a vehicle ahead and adjust both throttle and brake inputs to maintain a safe distance. The lane centering feature also ensures the vehicle remains safely in the center of its lane while maneuvering through congested highways and traffic jams.
Traffic Jam Assist works automatically whenever Adaptive Cruise Control is enabled and vehicle speed is < 60 km/h (37 mph).
NOTE
If Traffic Jam Assist brings the vehicle to a complete stop for more than 3 seconds, the driver is required to either press RES/CAN on the steering wheel controls OR press the accelerator pedal to resume Traffic Jam Assist operation.
If the vehicle remains stationary for longer than 5 minutes, TJA will be deactivated and the Electric Park Brake applied.
WARNING
Stay alert and prepare to take control of the car if the TJA system is deactivated.
Be sure to keep your hands on the steering wheel when you are using the TJA system.
It is the driver’s responsibility to always be aware of his or her surroundings when the system is operating, and be ready to take control of the vehicle at any time.
The steering wheel should be free of any objects (e.g., steering wheel covers) that could interfere with the hand detection sensor.
Lane Assist Systems﻿ (if equipped)
Overview
Lane Assist systems are a group of Advanced Driver Assistance System which assist the driver in avoiding unintended lane departures and preventing potential collisions via steering intervention.﻿ Lane Assist consists of the following features:
Lane Departure Warning (LDW)
Lane Keep Assist (LKA)
Emergency Lane Keeping (ELK)
Lane Departure Warning﻿ (LDW)
Lane Departure Warning (LDW) is a driver assistance system that warns drivers when their vehicle unintentionally drifts towards the lane markers by using a visual warning icon, a warning sound or haptic steering wheel feedback by vibrating the steering wheel.﻿ This feature does not actively apply steering intervention.
LDW will be active whenever any Lane Assist mode is enabled.
Lane Keep Assist﻿ (LKA)
Lane Keep Assist (LKA) is a driver assistance system that actively supports the driver in maintaining the vehicle within its current lane. When the system detects the vehicle unintentionally drifting towards either lane marker or road edge it adjusts the vehicle path by corrective steering.
LKA will be active whenever  Warning & Steer  Mode is enabled.
Emergency Lane Keep
Emergency Lane Keep (ELK) is a driver assistance system that avoids or lessens the severity of accidents by automatically applying a steering correction when a vehicle is about to drift beyond a solid lane marking, the edge of the road or into oncoming or overtaking traffic in an adjacent lane.
ELK recognizes lane markings, road edges, and vehicles traveling in the same or opposite direction in the adjacent lane, and controls the steering wheel to prevent the vehicle from drifting or colliding with other vehicles in the adjacent lane.
ELK will be active whenever  Emergency Lane Keeping  Mode is enabled.
How Lane Assist Works
The lane assist system works by using a camera mounted on the windshield that collects information about traffic conditions ahead including:
Types of lane markings.
Distance from the vehicle to road markings or road edges.
Curvature of the road.
Proximity to nearby vehicles.
Based on these inputs Lane Assist will alert or actively provide steering intervention to correct the vehicle path.
Lane Assist Operation
Lane Assist has several modes of operation that can be selected in the Driver Assistance Page. Depending on which mode is selected one or more of the Lane Assist features will be activated.
The system will be automatically activated when the vehicle speed is between  60-150 km/h (37 - 93 mph) .
Lane Assist Modes
The level of Lane Assist intervention can be configured in Driver Assistance Settings. There are four Lane Assistance modes with driver feedback as follows:
Lane Assist Mode
Lane Markers Indication
Audible Warning
Haptic Steering Warning
Steering Intervention
OFF
Yes
No
No
No
Warning
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Warning & Steer
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Emergency Lane Keeping
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
To change Lane Assist Modes:
Tap  Library    on the touchscreen.
Tap  Driver Aids     > Driving Assistance   > Lane .
Lane Assist  Mode,  Sensitivity  levels   and  Chime  settings can be adjusted   through lane assist settings.
Lane Assist Displays and Warnings:
Depending on readiness and the presence and type of lane markings in front of the vehicle the Lane Assist system will project various indicators and alerts on the Infotainment Display. The following lane detection states may be shown:
Lane Assist Activation States
No Lane Detected
Lane(s) Detected
Lane(s) Detected,
Warning on Left
The presence and color of lane markings for both the left and right side of the vehicle be displayed accordingly:
No lane detected - No lines
Lane(s) Detected - Lane Keeping Assist (LKA) and Emergency Lane Keeping (ELK) settings are disabled: Display white lane markings
Lane(s) Detected - Lane Keeping Assist (LKA) or Emergency Lane Keeping (ELK) settings are enabled: Display a grey icon
Lane(s) Detected - Warning/Alert/Intervention:
Lane Departure Warning (LDW) Active: A yellow line, an alert sound and vibration feedback will appear throughout the event.
Lane Keeping Assist (LKA) Active: A single corrective steering adjustment with a mild intervention level will occur. This is indicated by a yellow icon  .
Emergency Lane Keeping Assist (ELK) Active: A notification message will be displayed on the central control screen along with a yellow icon  .
Lane Assist Deactivation:
The Lane Assist system is deactivated by the following conditions:
The speed of the vehicle is less than approximately 55 km/h (34.2 mph).
The speed of the vehicle is over approximately 155 km/h (96.3 mph).
The driver uses the turn indicator while changing lanes.
Lost detection of lane markings.
Another active safety system intervenes (Anti-lock braking system (ABS), Electronic stability control (ESC).
The quality of the detected two-lane lines is not high.
Driver override (apply high steering wheel rotation and steering override torque).
If Automatic Emergency Braking (AEB) is activated.
Tire pressure too low (Tier alarm detected).
Traction Control System (TCS) is not available.
Trunk door or Bonnet door is Opened.
If Hazard lights are ON.
Turn off the Lane Assist
Vehicle is not running in forward (Gear shift position is not in D)
When connect with trailer
NOTE
A malfunction warning will be triggered when a failure is detected in the Lane Assist system and will be shown on the touchscreen to notify the driver.
WARNING
Do not rely on the Lane Assist System to keep the vehicle within it’s lane or avoid collisions with other vehicles.
Always pay attention to the road and maintain a proper vehicle position within the lane otherwise vehicle damage, injury, or death could occur.
The functions of Lane Asssist have limitations. Always stay on course using the steering wheel and drive with care.
The Lane Assist system does not continuously steer the vehicle.
The Lane Assist system may not detect lane markings under poor weather or visibility conditions. This can occur if the camera is blocked by dirt, snow ice or sun glare.
Turn the system off when driving on slippery roads. Otherwise this could cause loss of control of the vehicle and a crash.
It is not recommended to use or activate Lane Assist Systems when towing anything such as trailer, recreational vehicles, etc. Failureto comply may result in property damage, serious injury or death.
NOTE
Limitation of lane assist systems
Lane Assist may not operate properly or may operate unexpectedly under the following circumstances:
The lane markings (or road edges) are complicated or a structure substitutes for the lines, such as a construction area etc.
The lane suddenly disappears, such as a junction etc
There is a boundary structure in the roadway, such as tollgate, sidewalk, kerb, etc.
The color of the lane markings (or road edges) is not distinguishable from the road.
There are markings (or road edges) on the road looks similar like lanes (example faded lanes/Road joints etc.)
The lane marking (or road edge) is indistinct or damaged.
The lane (or road width) is very wide or narrow.
It is the driver’s responsibility to safely drive and control the vehicle. Do not solely rely on LKA/ELK and drive dangerously.
If the vehicle is driven at high speed, the steering wheel may not be controlled. The driver must always follow the speed limit when using LKA/ELK.
When any abnormality in steering control, observe function status in MHU/HUD and take control if necessary.
Driver Monitoring System
The Driver Monitoring System (DMS) (if available) is a driver assistance system that monitors the state of the driver, to detect drowsiness or a lack of attention to the road ahead. ﻿DMS uses a vision system combined with information from the steering system to detect driver inattention.
The system can detect drowsiness or tiredness in a driver based on a combination of the following:
Eye Tracking: Duration of eye blink, eye movements, eye closure frequency.
Head tracking: head position, head movements.
Facial behavior: yawning, squinting.
Vehicle’s speed: The system can trigger a higher warning based on vehicle speed or erratic variation in vehicle speed.
Time of day: The system can trigger a higher warning when driving outside normal daylight hours.
Lane departure warning frequency.
The system can detect signs of distraction if the;
Driver has been driving for more than 3 hours. The DMS system will be able to detect user’s face changes over time.
Driver looks away from the road for too long.
Driver is using a phone while driving.
NOTE
The Driver Monitoring System is automatically activated when the vehicle speed is more than 10 km/h (6.2 mph).
The Driver Monitoring System will default to ON at every ignition cycle.
Driver Monitoring Settings
The driver monitoring system Warning and Chimes can be temporarily turned OFF via the settings. To access driver monitoring settings:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.﻿
Tap  Driver Aids   > Collision Avoidance   .
Use the toggle button to turn the warnings  On/Off  or to change warning settings.﻿
Driver Monitoring System Alert Types
DMS system will generate alerts if it:
Detects the driver is driving for a long time.
Detects driver drowsiness.
Detects the driver’s hands are off the steering wheel.
Detects the driver is using a phone while driving.
Detects the driver isn’t looking at the road.
The alert will be displayed on the infotainment touchscreen and head-up display together with haptic feedback and audible sound.
WARNING
Always drive carefully and do not rely completely on Driver Monitoring System.
Do not drive the vehicle if you feel tired. Always take a break in these situations to avoid the risk of vehicle accident, injury or death.
In some situations, the DMS may not be able to correctly identify the driver’s state.
The DMS vision system may be impaired if the driver is wearing sunglasses or eyes are hidden behind the frame of the glasses.
In some situations, depending on the type of mask used, the DMS may not be able to correctly identify the driver’s state.
The DMS system may not work if the driver monitoring camera or infrared light emitters are blocked.

## Collision Warning Systems

Forward Collision Warning﻿ (FCW)
The Forward Collision Warning (if available) system alerts the driver if an imminent frontal collision is detected with objects such as vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, or pedestrians. ﻿This feature does not actively intervene with braking or steering input. ﻿The FCW system takes information from radar and/or cameras to calculate the distance of objects from the vehicle in real time.
Forward Collision Warning Stages
Stage 1  - FCW icon   and a warning message is displayed and a chime sounds.
Stage 2  - FCW icon   and a warning message is displayed and a louder and higher frequency chime will sound.
NOTE
If Automatic Emergency Braking (AEB) is OFF, FCW will only issue Stage 1 Warnings.
Forward Collision Warning will default to ON after each ignition cycle.
FCW will be activated when the vehicle speed is in the range of 5 km/h-130 km/h (3 mph - 80 mph).
Front Collision Warning will not activate for stationary vehicles, moving or stationary motorbikes, and vulnerable road users (such as pedestrians, cyclists) when the vehicle speed exceeds 80 km/h (49.7 mph) due to limitations of the perception system.
In some situations, the ability of the FCW system to detect objects may be limited:
• Objects located above the coverage area of the sensors and cameras, such as garage doors that are partially open, or objects that are hanging.
• Low obstacles
• Narrow objects, such as barrier chains, poles, or fences
• Projecting objects, such as trailer draw bars
• Objects with certain surfaces and structures, such as fabric.
To Activate/Deactivate the Forward Collision Warning system:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.﻿
Tap  Driver Aids   > Collision Avoidance   .﻿
Use the toggle button to turn  ON/OFF  the system.﻿
Change the sensitivity of the system via the toggle button﻿.
NOTE
The camera(s) and sensors associated with Forward Collision Warning are designed to monitor an approximate area of up to 160m (525 ft) in front of the vehicle driving path.
CAUTION
FCW can issue unnecessary warnings when its function is impaired, e.g. if the radar sensor is dirty or its position has been changed. Always make sure all the sensors and cameras in the vehicle are clean before driving.
Do not stick objects, such as stickers, films, or protectors, near or in front of radar and cameras.
WARNING
The area being monitored by Forward Collision Warning can be adversely affected by road and weather conditions so always drive with caution.
Forward Collision Warning is designed only to provide visual and audible alerts. The system does not apply brakes or slow down the vehicle to avoid a collision. When seeing and/or hearing a warning it is the driver’s responsibility to take immediate corrective action.
Forward Collision Warning may provide a warning in situations where the likelihood of collision may not exist. Do not depend completely on the system and always pay attention while driving to avoid any type of collision.
Automatic Emergency Braking
Automatic Emergency Braking (AEB) can automatically detect an imminent forward or rearward collision and activate the vehicle’s braking system to decelerate the vehicle and avoid or mitigate a collision.﻿ Autonomous Emergency Braking has the ability to detect other vehicles, motorcycles and vulnerable road users such as pedestrians and cyclists.
If the system senses an impending collision the vehicle will automatically apply the brakes and show a visual warning.
The AEB consist of the following types based on the target area:
Front Automatic Emergency Bra
F-AEB utilizes the data collected from the front camera, the front and two corner radars to detect the distance and the speed of various types of objects on the vehicle’s forwarding trajectory such as other vehicles, motorcycles, pedestrians, cyclists.
Front Automatic Emergency Braking (F-AEB) (if equpped)
Front Automatic Emergency Braking (F-AEB) is designed to reduce the risk of frontal collisions. In the event that the system detects a delay or absence of deliberate reaction of the driver to an impending collision, it may automatically apply a strong brake to reduce the severity of the collision.
F-AEB is active when the vehicle is traveling at the speed between 5 km/h and 130 km/h (3.1 mph - 80.7 mph).
Drivers must not rely solely on the performance of the F-AEB feature as it may malfunction or not perform as expected.
Drivers are responsible for remaining vigilant and in control of the vehicle at all times. failure to do so may lead to damage, serious injury, harm or death.
In situations where both the driver and F-AEB initiate braking deceleration, the maximum braking deceleration from both the driver and F-AEB will be selected and applied.
NOTE
The effectiveness of F-AEB may be reduced at the low speed range less than 10 km/h ( 6.2 mph).
When F-AEB is turned OFF a telltale will be shown in the Car Control Area to inform the driver.
F-AEB is able to interrupt (stop) the emergency braking during its activation when:
• The driver intentionally presses the accelerator pedal to override the braking, or applies a rapid steering input to change the trajectory of the vehicle.
• The collision risk is no longer impending.
The Front Automatic Emergency Braking (F-AEB) will not activate for stationary vehicles, moving or stationary motorbikes, and vulnerable road users (such as pedestrians, cyclists) when the vehicle speed exceeds 80 km/h (49.7 mph) due to limitations of the perception system.
Activating/Deactivating the F-AEB:
Tap  Library    on the Infotainment screen.﻿
Tap  Driver Aids   > Collision Avoidance﻿.
Use toggle to turn  On/Off  front AEB﻿.
NOTE
The toggle button to turn On/Off of the Front Automatic Emergency Braking is disabled if the vehicle speed exceeds 10 km/h (6 mph).
CẢNH BÁO
Drivers must not solely rely on the performance of F-AEB as the feature may malfunction and may not always perform as expected.
Performance may vary based on road conditions or other factors. even when it performs as expected, the feature may only reduce the severity of a collision.
Drivers are responsible for remaining vigilant and in control of the vehicle at all times. failure to do so may lead to damage, serious injury, harm or death.
Due to sensor limitation, the feature’s performance may be degraded under specific conditions, including low light, rain, snowfall, and more.
F-AEB may not detect an impending collision and apply the brakes if another vehicle or object is partially in it’s path, or if there is debris on the road. It is the driver’s responsibility to drive safely and remain in control of the vehicle at all times.
F-AEB does not avoid or mitigate collisions from the side of the vehicle, always pay attention while driving.
Do NOT use F-AEB as a substitute for foot braking.
Do not use or activate this feature when towing anything such as trailer, recreational vehicles, etc. Failure to comply may result in property damage, serious injury or death.
Automatic Emergency Brake Fault
A malfunction warning will be triggered when a failure is detected in the AEB system or with other related ADAS systems and will be shown on the Infotainment screen to notify the driver.
CAUTION
The front camera, ultrasonic sensors, surround view cameras and radars may become blocked by mud, rain, frost, or ice causing them to fail in detecting approaching objects. The driver should always ensure that sensors are clean before starting driving.
Do not attach any item such as sticker on the ultrasonic sensors and radars.
Performance of Automatic Emergency Brake will be reduced when: • Regenerative brake is set to OFF/ MID/ LOW
• Battery percentage is above 95 percent
• Regenerative brake status is unavailable or malfunction
Blind Spot Detection
Blind Spot Detection (BSD) is a driver assistance system that monitors the adjacent lanes next to the vehicle and warns if an object is present in the driver’s blind spot. It will warn for objects the driver cannot see and warn for objects that approach fast from behind. This feature does not actively intervene or provide steering input.
Using radar, Turn indicator and vehicle speed BSD detects objects in the blind spot and calculates the distance of these objects from the vehicle.
When a moving object is detected in the vehicle’s blind spot, the LED blind spot detection lamp   will illuminate on the corresponding side mirror. In addition, if the driver attempts to change lane an audible chime will sound.
The function will automatically activate as soon as vehicle speed is greater than 15 km/h.
The function will be deactivated if the speed is lower than 10 km.
To activate Blind Spot Detection:
Tap  Library    on the touchscreen.
Tap  Driver Aids   > Collision Avoidance   .
Tap  On  under Blind Spot Detection via the toggle button.
Tap the  Chime  switch to Mute/Un-mute audio chimes.
To deactivate system:
Tap  OFF  via the toggle button to deactivate the system.
NOTE
Blind Spot Detection will default ON at each ignition cycle depend on Market or User Profile selection. Please contact VinFast for more information on applicable for the market.
Conditions under which the BSD may not function correctly​
BSD may not correctly detect vehicles and/or objects in the following conditions:
Bad weather such as heavy rain, fog, snow etc.
Ice or mud etc. attached to the rear bumper.
Driving on a road surface that is wet due to rain, standing water, etc.
There is a significant difference in speed between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area.
A vehicle is in the detection area from a stop and remains in the detection area as your vehicle accelerates.
Driving up or down consecutive steep inclines, such as hills or a dip in the road, etc.
Multiple vehicles approaching with only a small gap between each vehicle.
Vehicle lanes are wide, and the vehicle in the next lane is too far away from your vehicle.
The vehicle that enters the detection area is traveling at about the same speed as your vehicle.
There is a significant difference in height between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area.
Directly after the BSD main switch is set to ON.
Towing a trailer.
Vehicles traveling in the opposite direction​.
BSD may unnecessarily detect a vehicle and/or objects under the following conditions:
Short distance between your vehicle and guardrails, walls, signs, parked vehicles and similar stationary objects​.
Short distance between your vehicle and a following vehicle.
Vehicle lanes are narrow and a vehicle driving two lanes across from your vehicle enters the detection area.
Items such as a bicycle carrier that are installed on the rear of the vehicle.
Warning timing may vary depending on the vehicle that is approaching.
System Malfunction Warnings
If a fault is detected with the BSD system or an associated ADAS system it will trigger an alert message on the Infotainment screen to alert the driver. If a malfunction alert is displayed some or all of the system functionality may be impacted.
WARNING
The driver is fully responsible for changing lanes carefully and for checking if it is safe to do so.
Drivers must not solely rely on BSD as the feature may malfunction and may not always perform as expected.
The system may not provide alerts under all driving conditions, including when driving around tight curves.
The system also does not alert drivers to vehicles outside of the detection zones.
Performance may also vary based on other conditions or factors.
Drivers are responsible for remaining vigilant and in control of the vehicle at all times. Failure to do so may lead to damage, serious injury, harm or death.
CAUTION
The detection range may vary depending on the speed of the vehicle. Even if there is a vehicle in a blind spot zone, BSD may not activate a warning when passing at high speed.
The BSD sensors may become impaired by mud, rain, frost, ice or other factor. Performance may be subsequently affected and not alert the driver to vehicles in the lane on either side. Always keep sensors clean and remain vigilant at all time.
Warning timing may vary depending on the speed of the vehicle that is approaching.
Rear Cross Traffic Alert﻿ (RCTA)
Rear Cross Traffic Alert (RCTA) (if available) is a driver assistance system that warns drivers of an imminent collision from objects approaching from the rear of the vehicle whilst reversing.﻿ This feature does not actively intervene via steering input or braking but provides both audible and visual alerts.
RCTA uses radar sensors in the rear corners of the vehicle to detect moving objects that are approaching including the following:
Cars
Motorcycle
Bicycles
Shopping Carts
CAUTION
The RCTA function will not generate warnings for stationary objects or objects that are not road users, e.g. light poles, garbage containers etc.
RCTA Operation
RCTA Visual and Audible Alerts
If the RCTA system detects an approaching object it will notify the driver by displaying an alert icon   on the reverse camera display, Car control area and HUD. The alert icon will be shown in the direction of the approaching object.
If target objects are coming from multiple directions, multiple alert icons will be shown accordingly.
The RCTA Function generates 2 levels of warning according to the Time to Collision (TTC):
RCTA Alert Icon
Warning
Audio Chime
ON - Solid
Warning level 1
Slow Beep
ON - Flashing
Warning level 2
Fast Beep
An audio chime will also sound with the frequency increasing based on time to collision.
In addition, the Blind Spot Detection (BSD)   icon will flash in the vehicle side mirror closest to the oncoming object.
To Activate/Deactivate Rear Cross Traffic Alert﻿ (RCTA)
Tap  Library    on the Infotainment screen.﻿
Tap  Driver Aids   > Parking Assistance   .
Tap  On/Off  to activate or deactivate the Rear Cross Traffic Alert.﻿
NOTE
RCTA will default ON at each ignition cycle depend on Market or User Profile selection. Please contact VinFast for more information on applicable for the market.
Conditions under which the RCTA may not function correctly​
RCTA may not detect correctly vehicles and/or objects in the following conditions:
Bad weather such as heavy rain, fog, snow etc.
Ice or mud etc. attached to the rear bumper.
Driving on a road surface that is wet due to rain, standing water, etc.
There is a significant difference in speed between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area.
A vehicle is in the detection area from a stop and remains in the detection area as your vehicle accelerates.
Driving up or down consecutive steep inclines, such as hills or a dip in the road, etc.
Multiple vehicles approaching with only a small gap between each vehicle.
Vehicle lanes are wide, and the vehicle in the next lane is too far away from your vehicle.
The vehicle that enters the detection area is traveling at about the same speed as your vehicle.
There is a significant difference in height between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area.
Directly after the BSD main switch is set to ON.
Towing a trailer.
Vehicles traveling in the opposite direction​.
RCTA may unnecessarily detect a vehicle and/or objects under the following conditions:
Short distance between your vehicle and guardrails, walls, signs, parked vehicles and similar stationary objects​.
Short distance between your vehicle and a following vehicle.
Vehicle lanes are narrow and a vehicle driving two lanes across from your vehicle enters the detection area.
Items such as a bicycle carrier that are installed on the rear of the vehicle.
Warning timing may vary depending on the vehicle that is approaching.
System Faults:
In the event of a RCTA fault a warning will be displayed on the Infotainment screen. Vehicle alert details can be viewed in the Service app.
CAUTION
The sensors may become impaired by mud, rain, frost or ice and fail to detect approaching objects. Always make sure all sensors and cameras in the vehicle are clean before driving.
WARNING
Do not rely completely on RCTA to detect a potential collision, always check the surrounding area before reversing.
RCTA timing may vary depending on the speed of approaching vehicle.
Use the side mirrors and check surroundings for vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles or pedestrians that may be approaching the vehicle from the rear.
The system may not react if objects are approaching rapidly.
The rear cross-traffic assist will not provide alerts if your vehicle is parallel parked or if your vehicle is pulled too far into the parking space so that it is hidden by adjacent vehicles.
The RCTA chime may not be heard if the surrounding area is noisy.
Door Opening Warning
Door Opening Warning (DOW) (if available) is a driver assistance system that warns an occupant of an approaching road user prior to opening a vehicle door. The system assists occupants to safely exit a vehicle and prevent serious accidents associated with vehicle doors opening in front of oncoming traffic.
DOW uses radars in the rear bumpers to detect oncoming traffic. If an oncoming vehicle is detected occupants will be alerted via LEDs on the side mirrors. ﻿Additionally, ambient lighting will be used as a warning mechanism in combination with directional audible warnings for all people inside the vehicle.
The DOW Function detects and predicts the path of the following target objects:
Cars
Motorcycles
Bicycles
Shopping carts
NOTE
The DOW Function will not generate warnings for stationary target objects and elements.
The DOW alert will persist as long as the target object fulfills the warning conditions.
Door Opening Warning Operation
When DOW is active the following will occur:
An   icon will be shown on the corresponding door side view mirror.
If the impacted door is opened, this icon will start flashing and a chime will be heard.
If the corresponding door is closed and an oncoming object is still detected then the mirror icon will remain and the flashing and chime will cease.
Door Opening Warning is also shown on the Infotainment screen
Type of warning
Display
Left side warning when door is closed
Right side warning when door is closed
Both side warning when door is closed
Left side warning when door is opened
Right side warning when door is opened
Both side warning when door is opened
To Turn ON/OFF: the Door Opening Warning (DOW)
Tap  Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Driver Aids   > Collision Avoidance   .
Toggle Door Open Warning (DOW)  OFF/ON .
NOTE
Door Opening Warning system is default ON at each ignition cycle depend on Market or User Profile selection. Please contact VinFast for more information on applicable for the market.
Conditions under which the RCTA may not function correctly​
RCTA may not detect correctly vehicles and/or objects in the following conditions:
Bad weather such as heavy rain, fog, snow etc.
Ice or mud etc. attached to the rear bumper.
Driving on a road surface that is wet due to rain, standing water, etc.
There is a significant difference in speed between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area.
A vehicle is in the detection area from a stop and remains in the detection area as your vehicle accelerates.
Driving up or down consecutive steep inclines, such as hills or a dip in the road, etc.
Multiple vehicles approaching with only a small gap between each vehicle.
Vehicle lanes are wide, and the vehicle in the next lane is too far away from your vehicle.
The vehicle that enters the detection area is traveling at about the same speed as your vehicle.
There is a significant difference in height between your vehicle and the vehicle that enters the detection area.
Directly after the BSD main switch is set to ON.
Towing a trailer.
Vehicles traveling in the opposite direction​.
RCTA may unnecessarily detect a vehicle and/or objects under the following conditions:
Short distance between your vehicle and guardrails, walls, signs, parked vehicles and similar stationary objects​.
Short distance between your vehicle and a following vehicle.
Vehicle lanes are narrow and a vehicle driving two lanes across from your vehicle enters the detection area.
Items such as a bicycle carrier that are installed on the rear of the vehicle.
Warning timing may vary depending on the vehicle that is approaching.
System Malfunctions
A malfunction warning will be triggered when a failure is detected in the DOW system or with other related ADAS systems and will be shown on the Infotainment screen to notify the driver.
CAUTION
The rear sensors may become blocked by mud, rain, frost or ice and fail to detect approaching objects. Always ensure sensors are clean before starting driving.
WARNING
Opening a door when an object is approaching may cause damage or personal injury. Always use the side mirrors and complete a head check to watch for vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles or pedestrians that may be approaching the vehicle.

## Park Assist

Front & Rear Parking Assist
The Front & Rear Parking Assist system assists the driver when parking by alerting them to surrounding objects. The system provides visual and audible alerts to inform and warn the driver. Ultrasonic sensors located on both the front and rear bumpers helps to identify surrounding obstacles.
NOTE
The number of front/rear parking assist sensors may vary depending on the vehicle version or market.
nsure all park assist sensors are free from the build up of snow, ice, dirt or mud which may impact their operation. For details on cleaning the sensors, see   Vehicle Cleaning > Radar, Sensor, Camera Care  .
CAUTION
Do not push, scratch or strike a sensor as this may cause damage.
Do not spray the sensor or its surrounding area directly with high pressure water.
Front Parking Assist
Front Parking Assist (FPA) is a driver assistance system that warns the driver of nearby objects (including the sidewalk) in front of the vehicle when parking.
Rear Parking Assist
Rear Parking Assist (RPA) is a driver assistance system that warns the driver of nearby objects (including the sidewalk) behind the vehicle when parking.
Park Assist operation
Colored bands will be shown at the front and rear of the Car Control Area vehicle indicating proximity to objects along with an audible warning.
Front obstacle detected
Rear obstacle detected
When the Parking Assist is ON:
The system will automatically activate when the vehicle is shifted into reverse or the rear camera is turned on.
In the case of decelerates, the system will automatically activate when the speed less than 10 km/h (6.2mph).
In the case of acceleration, the system will operate within the speed range of 0 - 15 km/h (0-9.3 mph).
When the Parking Assist is OFF
The system will activate when the user manually turns on the 360-degree camera or the rear camera.
To On/Off the Parking Assist:
Tap  Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Driver Aids   > Parking Assistance   .
Toggle  Park Assist  Off / On.
To turn ON/OFF Parking assist chime:
Tap  Mute    when available on Car Control Area.
NOTE
Parking Assist chime Mute/Unmute button only displays when Parking Assist is activated
Park Assist Faults
Park Assist will display a warning message on the Infotainment screen as well as on the vehicle alerts page if it detects a fault    .
If a Park Assist sensor faulted due to dirt or a blockage, clean the impacted sensor. For more details on cleaning sensors, see >   Vehicle Cleaning > Radar, Sensor, Camera Care  .
There are situations in which the Parking Assist system might operate unexpectedly:
Uneven road condition, gravel roads, rails, repairing road or fallen leave on the road.
Driving in incline/decline conditions.
Driving in the flooded road.
After sales toolkit such as bumper protector etc. is installed in the bumpers.
Driving in bad weather such as heavy rain, fog, snow or a sandstorm.
Driving in the heavy traffic jam condition.
Driving in strong wind are blowing, or beside a big car (truck, bus etc).
The orientation ultrasonic sensor has been changed due to collision or other impacts.
CAUTION
Do not apply paint on sensors, it will effect on the performance of sensors.
WARNING
The driver must always remain alert and in full control of the vehicle at all times including during parking maneuvers.
Park Assist may not detect potholes, trenches or drains which are below ground level.
Under certain circumstances, various reflective surfaces, objects or clothing may cause the system to fail to detect obstacles. Special attention has to be paid to low obstacles which can damage the lower part of the bumper.
Always check the surrounding area when reversing and using the rear parking assist system.
It is not recommended to use or activate Rear Parking Assist when towing anything such as trailer, recreational vehicles, etc. Failure to comply may result in property damage, serious injury or death.
Rear View Camera
The Rear View Camera is used to display the area behind the vehicle and to assist with reversing or parking maneuvers.﻿ The system uses a camera mounted above the rear license plate and projects an image on the Touchscreen display. See > Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) > Park Assist > 3 60  Surround View Monitoring
How to Activate the Reverse Camera
The Rear View Camera is automatically activated when reverse gear is selected.
The Rear View Camera can also be activated manually by selecting the Camera icon   on the left side of the Car Control Area.
When reverse is selected parking assist is also activated and provides guidelines and audio feedback to assist when parking. For more info, See >  P ark Assist
The dynamic guidelines show the driving path relative to the steering wheel position.
How to Deactivate the Reverse Camera
The Rear View Camera is automatically deactivated if the driver disengages reverse (R) gear or when vehicle speed is greater than 18 km/h in Drive (D). The driver can also deactivate the camera view manually by pressing (X) on the display.
WARNING
Keep the rear view camera lenses clear as unclear lenses will impact vision and objects may not be detected leading to a collision.
Always check vehicle surroundings while using the rear view camera as cameras may not detect objects or barriers that can potentially cause damage or injury.
The camera(s) may not display children, pedestrians, cyclists, traffic, animals, or any other objects outside of the camera’s field of view.
The distance of images displayed maybe different from actual.
Do not obscure the rear view camera by installing objects, such as a bumper sticker or a bumper guard, near the rear view camera.
360 Surround View Monitoring
The 360 Surround View Monitoring System uses multiple cameras along with graphical markings to assist the driver in low speed parking maneuvers.
The system works in parallel with the Park Assist system and provides multiple viewing options from cameras mounted in the side mirrors, front and rear bumpers. Depending on the display mode some of these views are stitched together to provide a complete 360-degree view around the vehicle. ﻿Camera locations are shown below:
NOTE
To ensure optimum system performance please ensure each camera is free from dirt or obstruction.
Performance of the surround view monitor may be reduced due to heavy fog.
WARNING
The driver has full responsibility for vehicle operation while using the surround view monitoring system.
Areas near the corners of the vehicle may be obscured from camera view resulting in some surrounding objects not being detected.
Do not fold in the outside mirrors of the vehicle when using surround view monitoring. Doing so will limit the effectiveness of the vehicles side cameras and display performance.
Objects and obstacles above the cameras are not displayed.
Surround view monitoring is designed to be used on a flat surface. Roads with different heights such as curbs and speed bumps may look different on the display.
The camera visibility can be blocked due to trailer towing or any attachment to the vehicle.
Surround View Monitor Operation
When reverse gear is engaged, the system is activated automatically. A reverse camera view along with a top down 360-degree view will be shown by default.
The Surround View Monitoring system will also automatically activate when autonomous modes are enabled and the vehicle meets the activation conditions.
The Surround View Monitoring system can also be activated manually by pressing the camera button on Infotainment screen.
The system automatically switches off when reverse gear (R) is disengaged, or the vehicle speed is more than 18 km/h (~11.18 mph) while in Drive gear (D). The driver can also deactivate the camera manually by pressing (X) on the display.
NOTE
Trong một số trường hợp SVM được kích hoạt tự động để hỗ trợ, người dùng không thể thao tác tắt hoặc chuyển đổi view trên Màn hình.
WARNING
The camera system is limited to displaying surrounding images around the vehicle. Some obstacle outside of this will not be shown. Always check your surroundings and park with care.
The camera(s) may not display children, pedestrians, cyclists, crossing traffic, animals, or any other object outside of the cameras field of view.
Display modes for vehicles equipped with Camera System Version 1
Depending on the vehicle version in the market, the Surround View Monitoring system offers several camera views and display modes.﻿ ﻿These views are selected by pressing the respective view on the left of the camera display window.
3D View
Front View
Left View
Right View
Rear View
Towing view (if available)
Exit
360 Degree View
Tap on the 360 icon   to view the vehicle in 360 Degree mode. This view provides perspective from outside the vehicle looking down. Rotate the view by touching the vehicle and swiping in any direction.
Return to default view by tapping   again.
Front Camera View
The front camera view provides vision from the front of the vehicle. In addition to the camera view, dynamic guidelines will be projected showing the intended path of the front wheels. The guidelines are also color coded indicating distance to any nearby obstacles.
Front Camera view can also be selected by tapping the Front Camera icon  .
Side Camera Views
The side camera views use cameras mounted in the side view mirrors to display an image projecting towards the front wheels. This view assists in parking close to gutters or other items that may potentially damage the vehicle wheels or tires. Side view is accessed by tapping either the left or right camera icons.
Rear Camera View
The rear view camera will automatically appear whenever reverse gear is selected. In addition, the rear camera view can also be selected by tapping the rear camera icon  . When activated the reverse camera will work simultaneously with the park assist system. In addition to the rear camera view static and dynamic guidelines will appear to assist guiding the driver during a parking maneuver. The guidelines are colored to indicate distance to an object.
The Rear Camera View is deactivated when the driver disengages reverse gear. The driver can also deactivate the camera view manually by tapping  (X)  on the display.
For more information See >   Park Assist > Rear View Camera  .
Top Down View:
Top down view shows a view from directly above the vehicle. This is a default view and is shown in conjunction with all of the other views. No static or dynamic guidelines shall be displayed in the top down image.
Top Down View is deactivated when the driver selects zoom mode.
Camera Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Driver Aids   > Driving Assistance   > Camera.
Turn on or off the desired function.
﻿Display modes for vehicles equipped with Camera System Version 2
Depending on the vehicle version in the market, the Surround View Monitoring system offers several camera views and display modes.﻿ These views are selected by pressing the respective view on the left of the camera display window
3D View
Front View
Front Ground View
Front Wheel View
Rear View
Rear Ground View
Rear Wheel View
Camera Settings
Exit
Display or hide top view
360 Degree View
Tap on the 360 icon   to view the vehicle in 360 Degree mode. This view provides perspective from outside the vehicle looking down. Rotate the view by touching the vehicle and swiping in any direction.
Return to default view by tapping   again.
Front Camera View
The front camera view provides vision from the front of the vehicle. In addition to the camera view, dynamic guidelines will be projected showing the intended path of the front wheels. The guidelines are also color-coded indicating distance to any nearby obstacles.
Front Camera view can also be selected by tapping the Front Camera icon  .
Ground View
The Ground View mode provides a wide-angle view from the front or rear of the vehicle. This view assists when parking near gutters or other objects that may damage the wheels or tires. Ground View mode can be selected by tapping the corresponding front/rear Ground View icon on the infotainment screen.
Wheel View
The Wheel View provides vision from the Left/Right wheel and also shows Top view of the vehicle. This view shows static or dynamic guidelines displayed in the Top view image. Wheel view can be selected by tapping the respective front/rear wheel view icon on the Infotainment screen.
Side Camera Views
The side camera views use cameras mounted in the side view mirrors to display an image projecting towards the front wheels. This view assists in parking close to gutters or other items that may potentially damage the vehicle wheels or tires. Side view is accessed by tapping either the left or right camera icons.
Rear Camera View
The rear-view camera will automatically appear whenever reverse gear is selected. In addition, the rear camera view can also be selected by tapping the rear camera icon  . When activated the reverse camera will work simultaneously with the park assist system. In addition to the rear camera view static and dynamic guidelines will appear to assist guiding the driver during a parking maneuver. The guidelines are colored to indicate distance to an object.
The Rear Camera View is deactivated when the driver disengages reverse gear. The driver can also deactivate the camera view manually by tapping  (X)  on the display.
For more information See >   Park Assist > Rear View Camera  .
Top Down View:
Top down view shows a view from directly above the vehicle. This is a default view and is shown in conjunction with all of the other views. No static or dynamic guidelines shall be displayed in the top down image.
Top Down View is deactivated when the driver selects zoom mode  .
Camera Settings:
Tap to Camera icon on Car Control Area
Tap to Setting icon
Turn on or off the desired function.
You can turn on or off the following features in the camera settings:
Transparent Car Model
Dynamic Guidance Line
Obstacle Warning Overlay
Automatic Bumper View Switch
Automatic Curb View Switch

# Driving


## Starting & Shutting Down Vehicle

Starting the Vehicle
The vehicle is fitted with technology that enables keyless start/stop operation. A valid key fob must be present inside the vehicle in order to turn the vehicle ON.
CAUTION
Ensure the electric park brake is applied and the vehicle is in Park (P) before starting the vehicle.
NOTE
Metal objects and devices with electronic components, such as mobile phones, can interfere with the start/stop system.
To Start Driving the Vehicle:
Press the brake pedal    .
READY  will be displayed on the touchscreen indicating the vehicle is ON﻿.
Disengage the Electric Parking Brake (EPB) via one of the following methods:
Manually - Press the EPB switch     OR,
Automatically - When driver’s door is closed, EPB will disengage automatically when the driver’s foot is on the brake pedal and gear is selected.
Select either Drive (D) or Reverse (R)﻿    .
Press the Accelerator pedal     to start driving﻿. If Creep Mode is activated, the vehicle will automatically move slowly without pressing the accelerator pedal.
To Power Off the Vehicle:
Press the brake pedal   until the vehicle has come to a complete stop.
Push the Park (P) button    .
After exiting and locking, the vehicle will automatically power off﻿.
NOTE
After locking the vehicle it may be possible for the vehicle cooling fan or pump to still be heard for an extended period of time. This is normal vehicle operation and could be contributed by:
• the vehicle high voltage battery is charging the low voltage (12V) battery.
• the vehicle is in the process of cooling the HV electric motor.
• the vehicle is in the process of a firmware over the air (FOTA) software update.
If this noise continues for an excessive period of time, please contact VinFast Service to have the vehicle inspected.
WARNING
Do not shift between Drive (D) and Reverse (R) or Park (P) when the vehicle is in motion.
Do not accelerate while engaging a gear.
Do not press down the accelerator pedal and brake pedal at the same time.
Ensure that all occupants fasten their seatbelt before starting the vehicle.
Vehicle Power Mode Information
The vehicle consists of three power modes:
OFF  - vehicle is powered OFF and no accessories or vehicle drive will be available.
Accessory (ACC)  - accessory power mode is active allowing access to infotainment features on the touchscreen.
ON (Ready)  - both accessory and vehicle drive power ON.
To Transition from OFF to ACC, one of the following scenarios needs to be met:
Vehicle is unlocked via key fob, VinFast App or mechanical key.
Door handle passive entry button on exterior door handle is pressed.
Liftgate is unlocked via key fob, exterior button or foot kick sensor.
Brake pedal is pressed.
Volume button on center console is pressed.
To Transition from ACC to ON, one of the following scenarios needs to be met:
The driver is present in the vehicle with a valid key fob.
Brake pedal is pressed.
Transmission gear in Park (P).
To Transition from ON to OFF, one of the following scenarios needs to be met:
10 minute timer has expired.
Transmission gear position is in Park (P).
Pet Mode and Camp mode are not active.
HV charging is not active.
LV battery charging is not active.
Vehicle is locked via key fob, VinFast App or mechanical key.
To Transition from ACC to OFF, one of the following scenarios needs to be met:
2 minute timer has expired.
Transmission gear in Park (P).
HV charging is not active.
LV battery charging is not active.
Vehicle is locked via key fob, VinFast App or mechanical key.
Low Key Fob Battery
If the remote key fob battery is too low, the vehicle can still be started.
To start the vehicle:
Place the key in the location shown
Press the brake pedal and push the D or R button

## Drive Systems

Transmission Gear Selector
The vehicle Transmission Gear selector is used to engage different vehicle gear positions, which include Park (P), Reverse (R), Neutral (N) and Drive (D).
The Transmission Gear Selector is located on the driver’s side of the center console.
Park (P)
Reverse (R)
Neutral (N)
Drive (D)
To select a gear position:
Depress the brake pedal and ensure the vehicle is stationary or has come to a complete stop.
Press the desired gear button.
The selected gear button will illuminate once selected and be shown on the touchscreen﻿.
WARNING
Do not speed up while engaging a gear.
Do not press down the accelerator pedal and brake pedal at the same time.
Do not use the Park (P) position instead of the park brake.
Turn off the power when leaving the vehicle, apply the parking brake and remove the key.
Never leave the vehicle unattended while the power is on.
NOTE
If the vehicle is turned off in Neutral (N), Reverse (R) or Drive (D) gear positions, it will automatically shift to Park (P).
Neutral
If traffic and road conditions permit, Neutral (N) may be selected while the vehicle is rolling. Neutral may also be used to allow the vehicle to be maneuvered in a workshop environment or to be moved onto a tow truck.
CAUTION
Shifting to Neutral will disable regenerative braking resulting in greater than normal brake pressure being required.
Shifting to Neutral should only be done while a driver is present to apply the vehicle brakes when necessary.
Drive Mode
The vehicle may have three driving modes which when selected can change the vehicle’s throttle response and power delivery. Drive Modes can be changed via the Infotainment screen.
Available Driving modes include:
ECO
NORMAL
SPORT
To select a drive mode:
Tap  Car Mode  on Infotainment screen﻿.
Select the desired  Drive Mode .
To exit drive mode, tap outside of the card.
ECO MODE
Slowest throttle response and low energy consumption.
NORMAL MODE
Medium throttle response and medium energy consumption
SPORT MODE
Quick throttle response and high energy consumption
NOTE
NORMAL and ECO mode have the same amount of Regenerative braking.
The selected drive mode icon is indicated on the top area of the status bar on the Infotainment screen
NOTE
NORMAL mode is the default mode. The maximum torque and maximum speed are the same in all three modes, only changing the vehicles throttle response and energy consumption.
Creep Mode
The creep mode is useful for driving at lower speeds in stop-and-go traffic or in parking lots. With this function active, the vehicle will move slowly in the selected direction of travel without the need to apply the accelerator pedal.
To activate/deactivate creep mode:
Tap  Car Mode  in the Car Control Area of the Infotainment screen.﻿
Select the three-dot icon.
Toggle creep mode  ON/OFF .
WARNING
Do not rely on creep mode to prevent your vehicle from rolling down a hill. Keep your foot firmly on the brake pedal if you wish to remain stationary or on the accelerator pedal if you wish to ascend a hill. Failure to do so may result in accident causing serious injury or death.
NOTE
When Creep mode is enabled:
Creep mode function is temporarily deactivated when ACC is canceled by using the brake pedal. Press accelerator pedal once to reactivate the creep mode.
The Creep mode feature continues to function when ACC is turned on and subsequently turned off using the CAN button on steering wheel.
Auto Gear P
When the function is activated, it allows the system to automatically switch from Drive (D) or Reverse (R) to Park Mode:
When the vehicle has fully stopped and the door is opened, and both the brake pedal and the accelerator pedal are released. Or
While charging
To activate/deactivate Auto Gear P:
Tap  Car Mode  in the Car Control Area of the Infotainment screen.﻿
Select the three-dot icon.
Toggle Auto Gear P  ON/OFF .
WARNING
Always ensure that the vehicle is securely parked before exiting.
Electric Parking Brake ﻿(EPB)
The Electric Parking Brake (EPB) is an electronically controlled parking brake that is designed to hold or stop the vehicle when parked. Additionally, it can be used as an emergency brake in case of an emergency.
When the EPB is active, the   icon is displayed on the touchscreen.
To engage the Electric Parking Brake﻿:
The electric parking brake can be engaged by any of the following methods:
Manually:  Ensure the vehicle has come to a complete stop, then pull the EPB switch.﻿
Automatic:  Ensure the vehicle has come to a complete stop; the electronic parking brake will automatically engage when the Park (P) mode is selected.﻿
To release the Electric Parking Brake:
The electric parking brake can be released by any of the following methods:
Manually:  When the vehicle is not in Park (P) gear, press the brake pedal, and press the EPB switch.﻿
Automatic:  Ensure the driver’s door is closed. The electronic parking brake will automatically release when the driver presses the brake pedal and shifts into Drive (D) or Reverse (R).﻿
To use the Electric Parking Brake in an Emergency:
The electric parking brake can be used in an emergency to stop the vehicle.
PULL  the electric parking brake switch back and hold it.
The electric parking brake will slow down the vehicle until it is released.
WARNING
Do not put any objects near electric park brake switch, it may interfere while activating the electric park brake.
Always make sure that the parking brake is applied and the vehicle is in Park (P) mode before exiting the vehicle.
Do not let anyone unfamiliar with the vehicle operate the EPB switch. An unintentional EPB release can result in serious injury.
Ensure that the EPB is only released when the driver is seated inside the vehicle and has depressed the brake pedal firmly.
CAUTION
Do not use the electric park brake to stop the vehicle, except in an emergency. The brake system may get damaged if the electric park brake is used repeatedly to slow down or stop the vehicle.
Do not pull the switch aggressively, otherwise it may cause the switch to break.

## Steering Wheel

Steering Wheel Adjustment
Prior to operating the vehicle it is important to adjust the steering wheel to achieve a comfortable driving position. For additional information regarding a correct seating position, see >   Seats > Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions  .
For an ideal steering position:
The driver should maintain a distance of 13-25 cm (5-10 in) from the steering wheel.
Arms of the driver should be slightly bent (around 120 degrees) and the chest should not be closer than 30 cm (11.8 in) from the steering wheel.
The driver should have a clear view of the area around the vehicle and of the head-up display.
The driver should always hold the steering wheel with both hands on the outer edges (9:00 and 3:00 position) when driving.
Electric Adjustable Steering Column (if equipped)
To adjust the steering wheel position:
Tap the icon   to open the ergonomic control.
Tap Steering Adjust   in the Car Control Area area on the touchscreen.
The  Steering Wheel Adjustment  card will open and show the steering wheel adjustment prompts.﻿
To adjust steering tilt or height, press the plus  [+]  or minus  [-]  button. ﻿
To move the steering wheel forward or back, press the left  [<]  or right  [>]  button. ﻿
Close the  Steering Wheel Adjustment  card.﻿
T ap S ave  to confirm steering wheel adjustments. The adjustments will be saved to the active profile.
For more user profile settings, See>  U ser Profiles   .
Each user of the vehicle can save their preferred steering wheel position to their profile.
NOTE
The Electric Adjustable Steering Column (EASC) can only be adjusted when the vehicle is in Park (P).
WARNING
Do not try to make steering wheel adjustments while driving.
Manual Adjustable Steering Column (if equipped)
Manual adjustable steering column allows for up/down   and fore-aft   steering wheel adjustments.
To adjust the steering wheel with manual adjustable steering column:
Unlock the steering column by releasing the lever and rotating the lever downwards.﻿  .
Adjust the steering wheel to your preferred position.
Lock the steering wheel in the adjusted position by rotating the lever up to its original position.
WARNING
Do not make steering wheel adjustments while driving.
Ensure all steering wheel adjustments are made prior to operating the vehicle.
Do not sit too close to the steering wheel when driving to avoid interference with the deployment of airbags and an increased risk of occupant injury during a collision.
Ensure that the steering wheel column is locked in place before driving.
Do not control the steering wheel by the horn pad. Doing so may result in injury to the driver’s arms, hands and head if the airbag deploys.
The steering wheel is equipped with a Hand Off Detection (HOD) sensor. Do not cover it with plastic, carbon fiber, plaster, or any other obstructive materials that may interfere with the sensor’s functionality. Damage caused by improper use or failure to follow these instructions will not be covered under warranty.
Steering Wheel Switches
The steering wheel controls allow the driver to operate vehicle controls and infotainment features without needing to use the touchscreen.
Entertainment Functions
Description
Volume up/down for current audio i.e. Media, Phone, Navigation, Parking etc.
Press once for small adjustments or hold for rapid increase / decrease.
Adjustment control for:
Head Up Display   ,
Steering Wheel   and
Side Mirrors   .
Previous / Next favorite radio station.
Press to restart / start current or skip to the next media track.
Press and hold to fast rewind / forward a media track.
Used for adjusting:
Head Up Display   ,
Steering Wheel   and
Side Mirrors   .
Press to accept a Vehicle Warning message.
Respond to ADAS prompts.
Used for confirming HUD, Steering Wheel and Mirror positions.
Switch between Entertainment Sources with current source shown on the touchscreen.
Press to trigger native Voice Recognition session.
Long press to trigger active phone mirroring voice assistant (Android Auto / Apple CarPlay).
If no phone is connected, press to open phone setup screen.
If phone is connected, display recent call list.
Press to answer an incoming call, press and hold to reject an incoming call.
Press to end an ongoing call.
Make a call to highlighted recent call list item.
Accept incoming call via call notification banner.
ADAS Functions
With vehicle full ADAS function
Description
Press to increase / decrease set speed of vehicle by 1 mph / km/h when vehicle is in Adaptive Cruise Control or Highway Assist.
Long pressing the button will rapidly increase / decrease set speed.
Press or Press & Hold to increase/decrease Adaptive Cruise Control vehicle gap.
Press to cancel / resume Adaptive Cruise Control or Highway Assist.
Press to enable Adaptive Cruise Control
See >   Cruise Control > Adaptive Cruise Control   .
Press to activate Highway Assist. (if available)
See >   Driving Aids & gt;    Highway Assist   .
Press to toggle Intelligent Speed Adaptation ON/OFF.
See >   Cruise Control & gt;    Intelligent Speed Adaptation.
With vehicle only basic ADAS function
Description
Press to increase / decrease set speed of vehicle by 1 mph / km/h when vehicle is in Adaptive Cruise Control or Highway Assist.
Long pressing the button will rapidly increase / decrease set speed.
Press to cancel / resume basicCruise Control
Press to enable Basic cruise control  .
See >   Cruise Control > ; Basic cruise control.
Press to toggle Speed limiter ON/OFF.
See >   Speed limiter
CAUTION
The driver is advised to read all relevant sections in the Owner’s Manual and become familiar with all steering wheel controls prior to driving to avoid distraction.
WARNING
Driver aids are not a substitute for appropriate levels of driver attention and judgment. The driver is always responsible to ensure the vehicle is driven in a safe manner.
Heated Steering Wheel﻿ (if equipped)
A﻿ heated steering wheel warms the driver’s hands and provides additional comfort when desired. The heated steering wheel temperature is automatically controlled depending on the ambient temperature.
To Activate / Deactivate the Heated Steering wheel:
Open the climate control interface.
Tap the  Steering Wheel  icon   to turn heating ON/OFF﻿.
NOTE
The steering wheel heating will only function when the vehicle is in Drive.
The Heated Steering Wheel function is OFF at startup.

## Mirrors

Side Mirrors
Mirrors mounted on the side of the vehicle provide the driver with visibility behind and to the left and right sides of the vehicle.
Mirror Adjustment
Side mirrors can be adjusted using Car Control Area controls
Tap the icon   to open the ergonomic control.
Tap  Mirror    icon.﻿﻿﻿
Select  Left/Right  side mirror to adjust.
Press the left side controls on steering wheel to adjust each mirror in the desired position.
Tap  Fold Both  to fold the mirrors inwards﻿﻿.﻿﻿
NOTE
The side mirrors can be folded only if the vehicle’s speed is below 16km/h (10 mph).
When the mirror positions are changed, a message will appear on the Infotainment screen prompting to save the new position to a user profile. Tap  Save , and the mirror position will be stored against the current user profile. This position will be automatically recalled the next time that user starts the vehicle.
Heated Mirrors
The heated side mirror feature reduces the effects of fogging and ice buildup on the exterior mirrors ensuring clear visibility. The heating feature is present on both exterior side mirrors. Side mirror heating is activated/deactivated automatically when the Rear Demist feature is turned ON﻿.
See >   Climate Control System > Rear Demist  .
Side View Mirror with Automatic Dimming
If equipped, the auto dimming feature will automatically dim both of the vehicle side mirrors to minimize glare from headlights of the vehicle behind. This function is automatically controlled by the interior rear view mirror light sensor.
Auto Fold
Automatic folding of vehicle side mirrors when locking the doors.
To turn auto fold feature ON/OFF
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment Screen.
Tap  Settings     > Vehicle     > Side Mirrors .
Toggle Auto Fold. Tap to Off/On .
Automatic Mirror Tilt in Reverse
If equipped, the side mirrors can automatically tilt downward to aid in parking when Reverse (R) gear is selected. When Drive (D), Park (P) or Neutral (N) gear is selected, the mirrors will return to their normal set orientation.
To turn Mirror Tilt feature ON/OFF:
Tap the icon   to open the ergonomic control.
Tap  Mirror    icon.﻿﻿﻿
Tap the toggle button to turn on the feature.
NOTE
In the case of an electrical malfunction, the driver can adjust the mirror by gently pressing on the edges of the mirror glass.
WARNING
When parking, changing lanes or performing an overtaking or turning maneuver, always pay careful attention to the area around the vehicle as objects and other road users may be located in a blind spot.
Always ensure that the mirrors are positioned correctly and that the rear view is not restricted by ice, snow, condensation or other objects.
Do not drive on roads while either side mirror is folded inwards, as visibility of surroundings will be reduced.
During mirror folding operation, ensure that fingers do not get caught between the exterior mirror and the mirror base.
CAUTION
Curved mirror surfaces enlarge the field of view and therefore objects may actually be closer than they appear. To avoid any risk of a collision it is recommended to always check your surroundings by looking over your shoulder prior to changing lanes.
Only fold the exterior mirrors IN or OUT when there is no obstruction in the path of the mirror.
Rear View Mirror
The rear view mirror is designed to allow the driver to have a clear view of the area behind the vehicle through the vehicle’s rear window.
Mirror Adjustment
The rear view mirror position is adjusted manually by hand. Adjust the angle of the rear view mirror when the vehicle is stationary and while seated in the correct driving position.
Automatic Dimming
When driving at night the rear view mirror automatic dimming feature reduces the glare from headlights of following vehicles.
NOTE
The dimming function uses light sensors positioned at the front and rear of the mirror. Do not block these sensors otherwise system functionality may be impaired.
Before driving, always check rear view mirror position.
CAUTION
Do not spray glass cleaner directly on the mirror. Use a soft towel dampened with water.
WARNING
Do not adjust the position of the mirror when driving. Doing so may lead to mishandling of the vehicle and cause an accident, resulting in death or serious injury.
Do not place objects in the rear seat, cargo area, or behind the rear head restraints which could hinder vision through the rear window.
To prevent serious injury during an accident, including deployment of the air bag, do not modify the rear view mirror and do not install a wide mirror.
Sun Visor & Vanity Mirror
A sun visor is provided for the driver and front passenger. The sun visors can be positioned to block sun glare coming through both the front and side windows by releasing. The sun visors include an illuminated vanity mirror and card holder.
Sun Visor Adjustment
To adjust a Sun Visor:
The sun visor can be adjusted in several orientations including:
Rotate the sun visor downwards   to a desired angle.
Detach from the mounting clip and swing outboard. Once detached, extend the sun visor by sliding it forward or rearward as needed
Illuminated Vanity Mirror
The driver and passenger sun visors have an illuminated vanity mirror. The mirror light switches on automatically when the mirror cover is lifted   and switches off automatically when the mirror cover is closed.
WARNING
Driving with the sun visor in the down position and the vanity mirror light ON can reduce vision of the road, particularly at night.
Sun visors should always be folded away if they are not being used.
When using the vanity mirror, do not lean too far forward in front of the airbag. The front airbag could cause serious injury if deployed.
CAUTION
Do not leave plastic cards in the card holder for long periods of time, as direct sunlight can damage them.

## Exterior Lighting

Exterior Lighting - Front
Overview
VinFast Signature Light
High Beam Light
Low Beam Light
Daytime Running Light, Position Light, Turn Signal
Fog lamp (nếu có)
Turn Signal Light in Side Mirror assembly
Exterior Lighting Controls
The vehicle exterior lighting can be controlled via the touchscreen and the left multi switch stalk.
Lighting control via Infotainment screen:
Tap Lighting Control   on the Infotainment screen.
Select the desired lighting function to enable.
Auto headlights On/Off
Low Beam On/Off
Parking Lights On/Off
All Lights On/Off
Front Fog Lights On/Off (if available)
Rear Fog Lights On/Off (if available)
The headlights turn on automatically when the exterior light control is set to  AUTO       and the ambient light level is low.
NOTE
Headlights may turn ON momentarily if the vehicle passes through a darkened area (e.g., beneath a freeway overpass).
Exterior lighting control by the multi switch (Left Hand stalk):
Up (when Vehicle on) – Right indicator
Up (when Vehicle off) – Right Parking Light
Down (when Vehicle on) – Left indicator
Down (when Vehicle off) – Left Parking Light
Pull – Highbeam flash / AHB override
Push – High beam on / AHB re-enable
Press – scroll through trip computer menu
High Beam
High beam headlights can be operated manually or by using the Auto High Beam function (if available).
Auto High Beam﻿ (if available)
AHB is a driver assistance feature that supports the correct use of the vehicle’s high beam headlights. It automatically activates high beam when the road ahead is sufficiently dark and alternatively deactivates high beam in the presence of oncoming and preceding vehicles to prevent flaring of oncoming vehicles.﻿ The system will also automatically deactivate high beam in areas of sufficient lighting (e.g., urban areas with the presence of street lighting).
The following scenarios will cause AHB system to dip from high beam to low beam:
If oncoming or preceding vehicles are detected.
In urban areas with sufficient streetlights, at junctions with traffic lights or in tunnels
In heavy rain or when fog lights are turned ON
The AHB system will turn the high beam back on once the conditions listed above are not detected.
NOTE
The vehicle headlight control must be set to AUTO and Fog Lights OFF to enable the Auto High Beam feature.
To activate the Auto High Beam feature:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.﻿
Tap  Settings     > Light Settings     > Exterior.
Use the toggle button to turn the feature  On/Off .﻿
NOTE
Pushing or pulling the lighting stalk will override the AHB system.
The AHB system uses the front windscreen camera to detect oncoming and preceding light of vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles.
NOTE
The AHB system can not detect all types of vehicles.
To manually activate / deactivate high beam:
To manually activate the high beam headlights, push the left multi switch stalk forward. The indicator light   will appear on the Car Control Area display and the high beams will be switched on. To return to low beam, pull the multi stalk switch towards you. To flash the high beam headlights, pull the stalk towards you momentarily.
NOTE
Do not cover the front windshield camera.
Do not clean the front windshield camera sensor with window cleaner or any hazardous solutions as it may leave a film which could affect sensor operation.
Do not apply any coating on the front windshield as this may impact AHB headlight performance.
A light sensor is located on top of the windshield. Make sure that the sensor is not covered otherwise headlights may turn on when not required.
Use manual operation to turn ON the headlights when required when driving at night, in rain, fog, tunnels and parking facilities.
WARNING
Do not use high beam when oncoming traffic is present. Doing so may distract oncoming drivers leading to an accident.
When using the AHB feature, the vehicle may not detect oncoming vehicles in all conditions. Always check for oncoming vehicles and switch to low beam when required.
Automatic headlights are only intended to assist the driver. Full control of vehicle headlights always remains the responsibility of the driver.
Turn Signals
The vehicle turn signals are controlled using the multi switch stalk on left-side of the steering wheel.
To operate the Turn signal:
To flash signal 3 times: Tap the multi switch stalk up or down lightly  .
To flash continuously: Push the multi switch stalk up   or down   fully.
When active the left or right turn indicator will flash on the touchscreen.
To cancel the Turn signal:
The turn signal will be canceled when:
The steering wheel is returned to it’s central position.
The stalk is pushed up or down while indicators are active.
The 3 flash sequence has ended, if not on continuously.
NOTE
The Daytime Running Light (DRL) will turn off while the indicator light is flashing.
Hazard Warning Flashers
The hazard warning flashers warn others drivers to take caution. It should be used in the event of an accident, if pulled over on the side of the road or when the vehicle is stopped on the highway.
The hazard button is located in the center console.
To activate/deactivate the Hazard Warning Flashers
Press the Hazard light switch﻿
NOTE
The red light on the hazard button will flash when the hazard warning flashers are activated.
The hazard warning flashers can operate even if the vehicle is Off.
Hazard warning flashers are automatically activated in the event of an Emergency Braking situation or airbag deployment.
The individual turn signals do not work when the hazard warning lights are on.
Exterior Lighting - Rear
Overview
Center High Mount Stop Light (CHMSL)
Tail Lights
Rear Liftgate Lights
License Plate Lights
Rear Reflector or Rear Fog lamp (if equipped)
Rear Tail Lights
Red Cover
Tail Light
Stop / Brake Light
Reverse Light
Turn Indicator
Stop/Brake Lights
The brake lights turn ON when the brake pedal is depressed to alert other road users that the vehicle is slowing down.
There are several brake lights equipped on the vehicle including:
Center High Mount Stop Light (CHMSL)
Rear Liftgate light
Rear Lamps
Center High Mount Stop Light (CHMSL)
The center high mount stop light (CHMSL) turns on with the brake light and is located at the top of the tailgate.
Turn Lights
Turn Lights are used to signal that the driver will change lanes or make a turn. They turn on when the driver initiates a turn using the left indicator stalk.
Reverse Lights
The reverse lights turns on when the ignition is on and Reverse gear (R) is selected.
License Plate Lights
The license plate light allows the license plate to be visible in dark conditions. The license plate lights are activated when either the headlights or parking lights are on.
Rear Reflectors
Rear reflectors are used to reflect the light from other vehicles behind so as to assist with vehicle identification at night.
Rear Fog Light (if equipped)
A rear fog light provides a powerful, concentrated beam of red light that will penetrate fog and heavy rain, making the vehicle more visible to others.
CAUTION
In order to avoid dazzling following traffic the rear fog lights should only be turned on according to the legal requirements in the country where the vehicle is operated and poor visibility conditions.
NOTE
Do not use a dry cloth or sponges to clean headlights or tail lights, as they could scratch or damage the lens surface.
In cool or damp weather, the inside of the headlights, turn signals, fog lamps and tail lights may develop condensation. This will clear shortly after switching them on and will not impact the service life of the lights.
Daytime Running Lights
The Daytime Running Lights (DRLs) increase the vehicle’s visibility on the road. The DRLs switches On/Off automatically depending upon the surrounding lighting conditions.
NOTE
The Daytime Running Lights are on the front of the vehicle only.
WARNING
During low visibility conditions, the daytime running lights system may not be able to provide adequate lighting. When needed, turn on the headlights during conditions of low visibility. Failure to do so may result in an accident.
The DRL’s will turn OFF when:
The position lights are ON.
The indicators are active.
The vehicle is turned OFF.
The DRL’s will illuminate with low intensity when:
Position lights are ON.
Low beam is ON.
Decoration Lights
Decoration lights   are used with Position Light to provide a lighting feature of vehicle and are not intended to illuminate the road ahead.
Decoration light operation:
Turn on when the lighting mode is set to Position Lights.
Turn on when the Headlamps are on.
Follow Me Home Lighting
When the Follow Me Home feature is enabled, the exterior lights will stay illuminated for a period of time after exiting the vehicle, before turning off.
To Activate / Deactivate Follow me home:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.﻿
Tap  Settings     > Light Settings     > Exterior .
Choose the time delay for lights to remain ON -  OFF / 30s / 60s / 90s / 120s .
To activate the Follow Me Home feature, after turning it ON and setting the light duration, the user needs to flash the high beam.
NOTE
This feature will not automatically remain active after each vehicle restart, so the user must flash the high beam before exiting the vehicle to reactivate it.
Welcome Lights
The vehicle welcome light feature automatically turns on exterior lighting when the driver approaches or unlocks the vehicle.
To Activate / Deactivate Welcome Lights:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.﻿
Tap  Settings     > Light Settings     > Exterior .
Use toggle to turn off the Welcome lights or choose the vehicle unlock option.
Auto Leveling Headlights﻿ (if equipped)
T﻿he Auto Leveling Headlight feature automatically adjusts the High and Low Beam headlight angle to ensure it is focused on the road in front and prevents distracting on coming traffic. Auto leveling compensates for headlight angle change due to vehicle loading conditions. The adjustment takes place when the vehicle is stationary.
Fog Lights
Front Fog Lights﻿ (If equipped)
The vehicle front fog lights are located on the front bumper and can be used to improve visibility in conditions of fog, snow, and rain.
Fog lights can be activated/deactivated via the Car Control Area Lighting Controls.
To activate front fog lights:
Tap  Lighting Controls    in Car Control Area on the Infotainment screen.﻿
Tap  Front Fog  icon﻿  .
The fog lights are turned OFF when any of the following conditions are met:
Vehicle state is OFF.
Position Light Switch is turned OFF.
Front Fog Lamps are deactivated from the light setting page.
When to use fog lights
Fog lights are designed for use when visibility is severely limited through fog, snow, or heavy rain. Fog lights are designed to make your vehicle visible rather than help light your way and therefore will not be necessary to improve visibility at night. The driver should only use fog lights when the vehicle’s main lights aren’t sufficient enough to make you visible to other road users.
Rear Fog Lights﻿ (if equipped)
Rear Fog Lights are installed on the rear bumper to indicate the vehicle’s position on the road when driving in fog, snow, or other conditions where visibility is limited.
To Activate Rear fog lamp:
Tap Lighting Controls   in Car Control Area on the Infotainment screen.
Tap Rear Fog icon﻿  .
The Rear fog lights are turned OFF when any of the following conditions are met:
Vehicle state is OFF.
Position Light Switch is turned OFF.
Rear Fog Lamps are deactivated from light setting.
When to use fog lights:
Fog lights are a safety device that should only be used during low visibility conditions like heavy rain or fog. The rear fog light should be used only when the visibility conditions are poor and are not a substitute to headlights.
Cornering Lights
If available, the front fog lights of the vehicle incorporate a cornering light function which projects light in the direction of the turning vehicle.
To activate the Cornering Lights
The Low beam lights must be  On , and Fog lights turned  Off .
Turning the steering wheel will activate the relevant cornering light. The system monitors the steering wheel angle and will keep the cornering light illuminated while the vehicle is making a turn. Once the turn is completed the cornering light will turn  Off .﻿
NOTE
In order for the cornering lights to function, the headlights must be On.
Puddle Lights
If available, puddle lights are located in each of the four doors which illuminate when the door is opened and the headlights are active. ﻿﻿The puddle lights will turn off when the door is closed. The white light emitted from the bottom of the door helps to make entry and exit from the vehicle safer in low light conditions.

## Interior Lighting

Infotainment screen Brightness
Brightness Control
The vehicle’s Infotainment screen display and switches are Illuminated to assist in viewing during varying ambient light conditions. When the position lights or headlights are activated, the switches are automatically illuminated.﻿ Brightness of the Infotainment screen can be adjusted via the Quick control menu or under Light settings in the vehicle settings menu.
To adjust brightness settings via Quick Controls:
Swipe down from the top on the home screen to open  Quick Control .
Use the  Display Brightness  slider to select preferred brightness.
To adjust brightness settings via Light Settings﻿:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen﻿.
Tap  Settings     > Light Settings     > Interior .﻿
Use the  slider  to adjust brightness.﻿
WARNING
Never adjust the brightness while driving. This could result in loss of control of the vehicle and may lead to an accident which may cause damage, serious injury or even death.
Rear Reading Lights
There are two rear Reading Lights located on the headliner trim.
Activation/Deactivation:
Press the reading light button   to turn ON/OFF.
Rear reading lights also turn ON when the doors are opened and the Vehicle Dome Lamp setting is set to AUTO. See >   Drive Systems > Roof Lights.
WARNING
Do not use the reading lights when driving in the dark. The reading lights may obscure the driver’s vision and lead to an accident.
Front Roof Lights
The Front Roof Lights are located on the roof at the front of the vehicle and can be illuminated in two modes:
Vehicle Dome Light
Front Reading Lights
Vehicle Dome Light
The vehicle dome light combines both the front and rear reading lights to illuminate the entire cabin.﻿ The dome lamp feature is operated via the touchscreen and has two operating modes:
AUTO  - all reading lights will illuminate when any door is open.﻿
MANUAL  - all reading lights will illuminate when activated via the touchscreen controls.﻿
To Activate/Deactivate the dome light:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.﻿
Tap  Settings     > Light Settings     > Interior .
Toggle  Dome Light  Off / On / Auto.
OR
Tap  Lighting Controls    on Car Controls bar.
Tap to  Dome Light  icon  .
Tap Off / On / Auto.
NOTE
In the event of an accident where the airbags have deployed, the dome lights turn ON automatically.
Do not use the interior lights for extended periods of time when the vehicle is turned off otherwise the battery will discharge.
WARNING
Do not use the interior lights when driving in the dark. The interior lights may obscure the driver’s view and may cause an accident.
Front Reading Lights
The two front reading lights can also be activated separately when a driver or passenger requires to illuminate their own area of the cabin.
To activate/deactivate a front reading light:
Press the lamp itself once to turn the light ON.
Press the lamp again to turn OFF.
Cargo Light
The cargo light is located in the rear luggage compartment area and provides a source of light while loading and unloading items in the cargo area.
To Activate/Deactivate cargo light
The light is automatically switched ON when the Liftgate is opened and is turned OFF when the Liftgate is closed.
CAUTION
To avoid breaking the cargo light, care must be taken when loading and unloading items in the rear.
NOTE
The cargo light will not turn off completely; it remains dimly lit after the liftgate is closed.
Battery Power Protection
Battery Power Protection feature helps prevent battery drain by ensuring the lights, infotainment system or other electrical systems are not left on for long periods of time. ﻿The maximum time these systems will remain on (if driver remains in vehicle) is 10 minutes.
Ambient Lighting
If available, ambient lighting provides a soft illumination around the vehicle interior. Illumination colors and lighting themes can be customized based on the users preference. It also acts as a warning and notification indicator﻿ See >   Door Opening Warning  .
NOTE
Ambient Lighting also acts as a warning when the passenger/driver opens the door and a vehicle is approaching from the rear. The ambient lighting system is also used to alert drivers as part of the door opening warning system. (See >   Door Opening Warning  ). The color and flash frequency of the ambient lighting will change depending on the warning urgency.
Ambient Lighting Activation
Ambient Lighting can be controlled from both  Quick Controls  and the  Settings App .
To activate Ambient Lighting using Quick Controls:
Swipe down to access the Quick Controls.
Use the  Ambient Light Brightness  slider to select preferred intensity.﻿
To activate Ambient Lighting using Settings App﻿:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.﻿
Tap  Settings     > Light Settings     > Ambient Light .
Toggle Ambient light  ON/OFF .
Toggle between different  Ambient Light Effects  to change the way the light is displayed.﻿
Use the brightness  Slider  to control Ambient Lighting intensity.
Use the  Color Wheel  for changing Ambient Lighting color.

## Wipers and Washers

Front Wipers
The Front wipers are used to remove water, rain, ice, snow or debris from the vehicle’s front windshield. The wipers operate across the front window to give the driver better visibility.
Wiper Controls
The Front wiper stalk is located behind the steering wheel on the right hand side. To use the front wiper, turn the vehicle ON and then move the stalk Up or Down to one of the operating positions.
Central Position   – To turn off the wipers from Speed 1 or Speed 2, gently move the wiper stalk downward or upward to the central position  . Ensure the stalk clicks into place to confirm it is in the OFF position.
End Press (Auto ON/OFF)   - When wipers are set to Auto and water is detected on the windshield, the wipers will automatically wipe the front windshield.
Up 1   – Wiper On Speed 1 (Low Speed).
Up 2   – Wiper On Speed 2 (High Speed).
Down – Pushing the wiper stalk downwards  , will initiate the windshield wiper to wipe once. Continuous speed 1 if held.
Thumb Wheel   – sensitivity adjustment of Low Speed.
To spray windshield washer fluid, pull the lever toward you  . The windshield wipers will automatically turn on at low speed.
Courtesy Wipe:
The courtesy wipe feature removes excess water from the windshield after the washer system cycle is complete.
NOTE
The Wiper/Washer will only activate when the vehicle is ON.
Check the washer fluid level regularly.
Fill the washer fluid reservoir until full.
To prevent icing on the windshield during the colder months, turn on the defroster to heat the windshield before and during washer use.
CAUTION
When washing the vehicle, set the wiper stalk in the OFF position to stop the auto wiper operation. The wiper may operate and get damaged if the switch is set in the AUTO mode.
To prevent possible damage to the washer pump, do not operate the washer when the fluid reservoir is empty.
To prevent possible damage to the wipers or windshield, do not operate the wipers when the windshield is dry.
To prevent damage to the wiper arms and other components, do not attempt to move the wipers manually.
To prevent possible damage to the wipers and washer system, use anti-freezing washer fluids in the winter season or cold weather.
To help prevent damage to the windshield wiper and washer system components, do not continue to hold in the wiper stalk when there is no washer fluid being sprayed otherwise the washer motor can get damaged.
Clear ice or packed snow from the wiper blades before using the wipers to avoid the damage.
Always use VinFast- approved washer fluid in the washer reservoir. Failure to follow this instruction may severely impact visibility when washer fluid is sprayed on the windshield, and might damage the vehicle’s paint.
Rear Wiper
The Rear Wiper is used to remove water, rain, ice, snow or debris from the vehicle’s rear window for better driver visibility.
Rear Wiper Controls
The Rear wiper is operated by twisting the rear wiper switch which is present at the end of the right stalk.
Off
Rear wiper is OFF
On
Rear wiper is ON
Rear Windscreen Wash
Twist away from driver until stop
Rear windscreen wash will activate then return to Wiper ON mode once released.
Twist towards driver     until stop
Rear wiper will perform a single wash cycle
To turn ON/OFF Auto Rear Wipers:
The auto rear wiper function will automatically cycle the rear wiper when the front wipers are activated and Reverse (R) gear is selected.
Tap vehicle icon   in car control area in the Infotainment screen.
Tap Wipers icon .
Toggle  Auto Rear Wiper  Off / On.
CAUTION
Before using rear wiper, clear the ice or snow from the rear window otherwise it will prevent wiper blade from moving. It may also cause damage to the wiper motor.
Do not use radiator antifreeze in the windshield washer reservoir. It can severely impact visibility when sprayed on the rear window, and may damage the vehicle’s paint.

## Braking and Stopping

Traction Control System
The Traction Control System (TCS) is an active safety feature that reduces wheel slip of the wheels during vehicle acceleration. ﻿TCS monitors the speed of each individual wheel and if slip is detected will apply brake pressure to that slipping wheel to maximize traction. ﻿It is recommended that TCS be enabled at all times for maximum safety.
The TCS light   will temporarily flash on the Car Control Area section of the touchscreen when the TCS system is actively applying brakes. If the TCS malfunctions, the TCS light will remain on, in which case please contact a VinFast Service Center to have the vehicle inspected.
The Traction Control System default setting is ON.
NOTE
Turning off the Traction Control system when driving on snow, mud, sand or very loose surfaces, or if using snow chains, may improve forward travel if in a bogged situation. It is recommended however to turn TCS back ON as soon as the vehicle is mobile again.
Traction Mode
If the vehicle has difficulty gaining traction in snow, mud or other loose surface and all attempts have failed to maneuver out,  Traction Mode  may be used temporarily. Traction Mode allows additional wheel slip in an effort to move the vehicle forward past the immediate area of low traction.
When Traction Mode is enabled Electronic Stability Control (ESC) will remain ON.
To Enable Traction Mode (Disable TCS):
Tap Car Mode   on the touchscreen.
Tap the three-dot icon.
Scroll down to find  Traction Control System (TCS).
Tap ON to activate it.
NOTE
Traction Control will also be disabled when ESC is turned OFF.
CAUTION
Traction Control System should be kept on at all times to maximize safety of the vehicle and its passengers.
WARNING
Traction Control System does not compensate or prevent collisions caused by dangerous driving or turning sharply at high speeds.
Anti-Lock Braking System
The Anti-Lock Braking System (ABS) prevents the wheels from locking and helps maintain steering during hard braking events. This enables the vehicle to reduce braking distance and enhances drive ability in varied road surface conditions. ﻿﻿The speed of each wheel is monitored and braking pressure on each wheel is adjusted so that the wheels continue to rotate and do not lock and slide﻿.
NOTE
A pulsating sensation will be felt through the brake pedals while ABS is operating. This characteristic is part of the normal operation of the system.
CAUTION
Maintaining strong and steady pressure on the brake pedal during an emergency braking situation is of utmost importance. Pumping or removing the foot from the brake pedal can lead to increased braking distance.
Drive at reduced speed when the terrain consists of snow, ice or covered in dirt or gravel as system performance may be impacted.
WARNING
If the ABS warning light     is on and remains on, a problem with the ABS system has been detected. Do not drive the vehicle and, contact the nearest VinFast Service Center as soon as possible.
If the Brake warning light     is on and remains on, a problem with the braking system has been detected. Do not drive the vehicle and, contact the nearest VinFast Service Center as soon as possible.
ABS does not compensate or prevent collisions caused by dangerous driving or turning sharply at high speeds.
Electronic Brake Distribution
Electronic Brake Distribution (EBD) optimizes the braking performance of the vehicle under different operating conditions.﻿ ﻿It electronically adjusts the brake bias from the front to rear wheels or rear to front wheels of the vehicle based on the traction available between the tires and road surface.
WARNING
EBD System does not compensate or prevent collisions caused by dangerous driving or turning sharply at high speeds.
Electronic Stability Control
The Electronic Stability Control System (ESC) helps to stabilize the vehicle during cornering and braking events if traction between the road surface and tires is reduced.﻿ ﻿ESC monitors individual wheel speed and driver steering angle and applies brake pressure to individual wheels to prevent vehicle understeer and oversteer, and aids the driver to keep the vehicle on it’s intended path.
The ESC light   will temporarily flash on the Car Control Area section of the touchscreen when the ESC system is actively applying brakes. In case of a malfunction, the ESC light will remain on in which case contact a VinFast Service Center to have the vehicle inspected.
To Enable/Disable ESC:
Tap Car Mode   on the touchscreen.
Tap the three-dot icon.
Scroll down to find  Electronic Stability Control﻿ (ESC).
Change ESC setting to  OFF/ON  using toggle button.﻿
NOTE
ESC by default will be ON every time the vehicle is turned ON.
Turning off ESC does not disable ABS or the braking system of the vehicle.
CAUTION
It is recommended to maintain a strong and steady pressure on the brake pedal during an emergency braking situation. Do not remove your foot from the brake pedal or pump the brake pedal, as doing so can increase the braking distance.
WARNING
Electronic Stability Control does not compensate or prevent collisions caused by dangerous driving or turning sharply at high speeds.
Hill Start Assist
Hill Start Assist (HSA) temporarily prevents the vehicle from unintended roll back when positioned on a hill or incline.﻿ The system remains activated for a period of 3 seconds after the driver releases the brake pedal. HSA works by temporarily holding brake pressure after the brake pedal is released by the driver.
CAUTION
HSA remains active only for a period of 3 seconds after releasing the brake pedal. Always be careful of the surroundings and be ready to press the brake pedal.
WARNING
Do not rely on HSA. It does not replace human input and intuition in any way or form. Always pay attention to the surroundings and drive safely.
A heavily loaded vehicle may cause the vehicle to roll backwards slightly.
Brake Assist System
The Brake Assist System (BAS) recognizes when the driver has applied the brake suddenly and applies additional brake pressure to assist the driver in minimizing vehicle stopping distance.﻿ BAS works to assist the vehicles braking system to engage ABS as fast as possible and will disengage upon release of the brake pedal.
WARNING
The Brake Assist System does not compensate or prevent collisions caused by dangerous driving.
Roll Over Mitigation
Rollover Mitigation is a safety feature which anticipates the potential for wheel lift by monitoring the driver’s steering wheel angle, vehicle speed and acceleration. ﻿﻿Rollover Mitigation analyses the rate of change of steering wheel angle and the vehicle speed to determine the possibility of a vehicle roll. The system reduces the possibility by applying appropriate brake pressure to individual wheels﻿.
Rollover Mitigation cannot prevent wheel lift caused by factors such as:
Road conditions
Rough terrain
Collision with other vehicles or objects.
NOTE
The curtain airbag remains inflated in the event of a side impact or rollover accident.
The curtain airbag is also designed to cover the side windows when inflated to mitigate any passenger ejecting from the vehicle in the event of an accident.
WARNING
Factors, such as road conditions, driving conditions, and vehicle loading may influence the chances of wheel lift or rollover.
Rollover Mitigation cannot prevent wheel lift or rollover in every situation.
Rollover Mitigation is a safety feature; it should not be exploited by driving the vehicle recklessly and causing danger to driver, passengers, and others.
Regenerative Braking
The vehicle is equipped with a regenerative braking system. The system can convert kinetic energy usually released as heat during a braking event into electrical energy. The recovered energy can be used to replenish the batteries, leading to increased vehicle range.
The system gets activated as soon as the accelerator pedal is released. It will gradually slow the vehicle down and start recharging the batteries.
The energy recovery can be monitored from Power and Regen Gauge   on the Infotainment screen just below the Drive mode icon in the status bar.
Regenerative Braking will be deactivated if the battery State Of Charge (SOC) is above 95%.
NOTE
The amount of Regenerative Braking may be reduced when the vehicle is fully charged or when the battery is very cold.
The color of Regen Gauge coresponds to the drivermode.
Driving Style
Driving Style can be accessed using  Car Mode    settings from Car Control Area. It provides the option to select the level of regenerative energy generated and used to recharge the vehicle’s battery.
The vehicle provides levels of regenerative braking to choose from (i.e.  OFF  (if available) , Low, Medium  and  High).  The levels can be switched using the toggle button under Regenerative Braking.
CAUTION
Regenerative braking should not be considered as a primary form of vehicle charging. It is a supplementary feature. Follow proper charging instructions to charge the vehicle.
Emergency Signal System
If available, the Emergency Signal System (ESS) will activate the hazard lights temporarily when the vehicle detects an emergency braking situation. Rapid flashing of the hazard lights assist to warn nearby vehicles of a rapidly slowing vehicle and encourage them to maintain a safe distance and avoid a collision.
The hazard lights will stop flashing once the emergency braking event has finished. If the hazard lights continue to flash, contact a VinFast Service Center.
For information on the Hazard Warning Flashers, see >   Exterior Lighting > Hazard Warning Flashers.
Auto Hold
Auto Hold helps keep the vehicle stationary without needing to continuously press the brake pedal, such as when stopped at a red light or in traffic jams. When Auto Hold is activated, after you press the brake pedal to bring the vehicle to a complete stop, the system will automatically hold the brakes even if you release the brake pedal.﻿ To continue moving, simply press the accelerator, and the system will automatically release the brakes.
When the vehicle is in the Auto Hold active state, to ensure safety and achieve optimal system performance, the system will automatically engage the electronic parking brake (EPB) in certain situations, such as:
Turning off the Auto Hold function via the infotainment screen without pressing the brake pedal.
When the driver’s door is opened.
Auto Hold active more than 5 minutes.
When the vehicle is stopped on a slope greater than 25%.
The system detects that the vehicle is rolling.
The driver shifts to Park (P) gear.
How to Activate/Deactivate Auto Hold:
To activate the Auto Hold feature:
Press the Car Mode   button on the infotainment screen.
Tap the three-dot icon.
Scroll to Auto Hold, press switch ON to activate the Auto Hold function.
To deactivate Auto Hold feature:
Scroll to Auto Hold, press switch OFF on the infotainment screen.
The Auto Hold indicator light will turn off when the function is disabled.
When Auto Hold is in the Active state, if the user turns off the feature without pressing the brake pedal, system will automatically engage the electronic parking brake (EPB).
Recognize the status on the infotainment sreen
CONDITION
LAMP
SYMBOL
DESCRIPTION
Auto Hold OFF
[OFF]: AUTO HOLD off.
Auto Hold Ready
[White]: when Auto Hold feature is enabled via infotainment screen and Auto Hold is in READY state.
Auto Hold Active
[Green]: The green icon indicates that the Auto Hold feature is enabled and in the active state. At this point, the driver can release the brake pedal.
Auto Hold transitions to the Active state when the vehicle is stopped, the brake pedal is firmly pressed, and the feature is activated via the screen.
Auto Hold Failure
[Yellow]: When the Auto Hold feature malfunctions.
NOTE
Auto Hold only operates in Drive (D), Reverse (R), and Neutral (N) gears (in cases where shifting from Drive or Reverse to Neutral). It does not work in the Park (P) gear.
If the user enables both Creep Mode and Auto Hold simultaneously, Creep Mode will not activate while Auto Hold is in the active state. The user can disable Auto Hold if necessary.
When ACC Stop and Go mode is activated, the system prioritizes ACC control, ensuring no conflicts occur with the Auto Hold feature.
When the user stops the vehicle on a slope, presses the brake to keep the vehicle stationary, and activates the Auto Hold feature, the indicator will turn green immediately.
WARNING
Check the warning lights on the control panel. If any symbols related to brakes or Auto Hold appear, stop using the feature and inspect the vehicle.
Perform regular maintenance and ensure the sensors and braking system are checked frequently.
Always use the handbrake or electronic parking brake (EPB) and turn off the engine when leaving the vehicle.
Ensure that the Auto Hold indicator light turns green before you releasing the brake pedal.

## Economy & Environment

Economical Driving
Economical driving is a way of driving which can help to improve road safety and help to prevent wear on your vehicle.
Please refer to the following recommendations for economical driving:
Avoid Harsh Braking: Regenerative Braking System is the key factor for economical driving. Regenerative Braking System will convert some of the vehicles kinetic energy into electrical energy to recharge the batteries. Regenerative braking is maximized by reducing the use of friction brakes and the best way to do so is to avoid harsh accelerating and breaking. See >   Braking and Stopping > Regenerative Braking.
Maintain Speed: High speed increases the energy consumption and discharges the battery at a faster rate. Driving the vehicle at an efficient speed will maximize the battery lifetime.
Reconsider use of heating and air conditioning: Reduce the use of the vehicle’s Heating, Lighting, Climate Control, Audio and Infotainment systems whenever it is convenient and safe to do so, as they consume power from the battery.
Tire pressure: Make sure that tire pressure is at the optimal level to reduce unnecessary rolling resistance that decreases efficiency of the battery. See >   Wheel and Tires>Tire Pressure.
Battery management: Keeping the vehicle in a well maintained condition will help to slow degradation of the battery. The greater the battery health, the more energy it will hold, providing longer range.
Minimize the use of DC Fast Chargers, particularly Super-Fast Chargers, to maximize the Battery life.
Also, plug the vehicle into a charger whenever the vehicle is not in use. Do not allow the battery charge to drop to a very low level of charge.
Remove unnecessary weight: Energy consumption can be reduced by removing unnecessary weight such as unused child seats, disposable and personal items, roof carriers, etc.
Maintain Distance: Maintain an adequate distance to other vehicles to avoid emergency braking.
Wheel alignment: Have the wheel alignment checked per the maintenance schedule. Incorrect wheel alignment can lead to increased tire wear and power consumption.
Windows: It is recommended to drive with all the windows closed if possible.
Driving Statistics
Driving Statistics displays the history of the battery consumption, distance, and power use of the vehicle over a chosen period. This data is also available to view via the VinFast App.
NOTE
This menu is only shown when fitted (for the markets that has internet connection).
To open driving statistics:
Tap  Profile Name  on the status bar .
Tap  My Profile   > Driving Statistics  .
Driving Statistics Graph    will be displayed on the screen﻿.
Time Ranges
The driver can see the statistics by selecting time ranges or by customizing the time range.
To select time ranges:
Tap  Expand    icon.
Select the Time Duration or customize the Date Range as required.
Tap  Apply  to apply the Time Duration for Custom range.
Statistics will be shown for the selected Time Duration.
To select the view:
The driver can select from the following different views for statistics:
Distance
Avg. Consumption
Power
To change the view, select the desired view from toggle button.
To Zoom In/Out:
To zoom in, drag two fingers over the Infotainment screen.
To zoom out, pinch two fingers on the Infotainment screen.
To view next/back page:
Viewing next and back page depends on time range selected.
Swipe right to left to view the next page.
Swipe left to right to go back to previous page.
Trip History
For Primary and Secondary drivers, Trip History displays a list of recent vehicle journeys. Tap on any recent trip in the list to view the following information:
Start Location
Destination
Stopping Locations
Departure Time
Date
Trip Distance
NOTE
This menu is only shown when fitted (for the markets that has internet connection).
To view Trip History:
Tap  Profile Name  on the status bar .
Tap  My Profile   > Trip History   .﻿
Tap  Trip Card  to open trip details.﻿
To delete a Trip History:
Tap  Delete    icon on the top right corner of the trip detail page.

## Cold Weather

Cold Weather
Overview
Winter months and lower temperatures may cause some changes in the operation of the vehicle. It is important to be aware of the effects of cold weather so that you can prepare accordingly. When snow and ice accumulate on the vehicle, the battery, tires, wiper fluid, and wipers can freeze. To achieve maximum range and performance, it is helpful to warm the cabin and battery before driving.
When battery is in cold condition, a snowflake icon appears beside battery capacity bar. Battery capacity bar also changes to amber color.
Impact of cold weather
Battery at risk:
Temperatures lower than -30°C ( -22 °F ) can cause issues to the battery in terms of performance and range. It is recommended to select ECO drive mode to help extend the range when driving in cold weather.
Frozen Door Handles, Windows, Mirrors:
In winter conditions, snow or ice may buildup within the door handles, windows and vehicle mirrors. It prevents the vehicle door, window and mirror from operating properly.
Doors:
Apply some extra force while pulling on the door handles to break it free of ice.
Open and close the door handle a few more times to release any remaining ice buildup.
Ensure the door handle is fully retracted before entering the vehicle, and ensure that the door is fully closed before you drive off.
Windows:
See >   Climate Control System > Front Windscreen Defrost and Defog   and see >   Climate Control System > Rear Demist
Alternatively, the VinFast App can be used to defrost the windows before entering the vehicle.
Mirrors:
The ice can hinder the folding or unfolding of exterior side mirrors. Therefore, it is recommended to turn OFF Mirror Auto Fold so that they do not fold when the vehicle is locked. See >   Mirrors > Side Mirrors  .
Tire inflation issues:
Fluctuating temperatures have impacts on the level of inflation in tires, which makes it extremely important to check the tire pressures frequently in cold conditions. Use winter tires to increase traction in snowy or icy conditions. See >   Wheels and Tires > Tire Pressure.
Frozen windshield wipers:
Cold temperatures can also cause your windshield wipers to freeze, which can be dangerous. If snow or ice is expected when parked, consider tilting the windshield wipers up.
Lighting operation:
Remove any snow, frost or ice that may cover the indicators, head lights and brake lights, before driving to ensure safe vehicle operation.
While Driving
Cold conditions increase energy consumption due to more power which is needed for driving, cabin heating, and battery charging. Energy consumption can be reduced by following these tips:
To keep warm, use seat heaters. Seat heaters are less energy-consuming than cabin heaters. Reducing cabin temperature and using seat heaters reduces energy consumption. See >   Climate Controls.
Maintain slow and steady speed while driving and avoid rapid braking and accelerations.
Regenerative braking
Depending on the battery temperature, regenerative braking may be limited. The battery warms up as you drive and regenerative power increases. See >   Braking and Stopping > Regenerative Braking.
Cooling system
Before use cooling system be ensure the bumper cleaned snow and ice, it can be appeared fault in the winter time because the snow and ice interferes good working of moveable radiator grill.
WARNING
Always use VinFast- approved washer fluid only. The sprayed washer fluid may freeze on the windscreen and obstruct the drivers view, or the fluid may freeze in the reservoir tank if instructions are not followed.
Do not use the cruise control on slippery roads such as snowy or icy roads. This may cause loss of vehicle control.
Do not use a combination of different tires in extreme weather conditions.

## Flood Precautions

Flood Precautions
It is not recommended to drive in flooded roads or areas.
If it is mandatory to drive through a flooded area, to prevent the vehicle from being damaged, it is necessary to pay attention to the following precautions:
Check water depth before driving through water. The water level should not exceed the vehicle’s ground clearance.
Drive at a low speed (less than 10 km/h). Otherwise, waves may form in front of the vehicle, damage the motor controller and other components, and make the vehicle unable to drive.
Do not park or reverse in water under any conditions.
WARNING
Apply the brakes several times to restore braking function after driving through water.
The presence of water, mud, or silt in the braking system can reduce braking efficiency and increase stopping distances. Drive carefully, maintain a safe following distance, and avoid sudden braking.
Driving through deep water can damage your electrical motor. This damage is not covered by the warranty.
Other systems like transmission, driving and electrical may also be seriously damaged upon submersion. This damage is not covered by the warranty.
Effects of waterlogging on high-voltage parts
If your vehicle is submerged in water or if you drive through water that reaches or exceeds the doorsill, water may enter the high-voltage system, this can pose serious safety risks. Servicing flood-damaged vehicles by unauthorized workshop cannot guarantee, please contact VinFast for support and bring vehicle immediately to VinFast authorized dealers for checking and repair if vehicle is flooded.
Effects of waterlogging on the A/C Condenser
Water, mud, leaves, or debris accumulated after driving through flooded areas may affect the A/C condenser, and the cooling performance of the system. After driving through flooded areas, inspect and clean the front grille area. If any abnormal condition is detected, have the vehicle inspected by an authorized VinFast Service Workshop.

# Displays, Connections and Climate


## Touchscreen

Infotainment screen Overview
The vehicle Infotainment screen allows control of many vehicle features and functions that traditionally would be provided by physical buttons and switches. The Infotainment screen also replaces a traditional instrument cluster to display important information related to vehicle speed, drive status, warning and indicators and Advanced Driver Aid messages.
Images and features in this chapter are for illustration purposes only and may vary depending on vehicle variant and selected software.
Front Infotainment screen Layout
Car Control Area
Displays vehicle status and driving related messages including vehicle speed and warnings.
Provides controls for headlights, mirrors, steering wheel port, vehicle access...
Infotainment Area
Display detailed content and entertainment information
Provides access to climate control functions.
Quick Control
Provides quick controls for some function
Ergonomic controls
Provides controls for mirrors, steering wheel, and HUD.
Lighting controls
Provides controls for headlights
Car modes & Regen levels
Provide access to change drive mode
Home button
Back to home page
App Library
Display the available Apps
Climate Controls
Provides access to climate control functions.
Status Bar
Displays key information related to connectivity and user profiles.
Status Bar
Displays information related to the apps & notifications on the top portion of the Infotainment screen homepage. It may provide quick access to the following:
Connection type
Indicates type of connection.
VinFast Logo
Tap to activate Voice Assistant.
See > Infotainment >   Virtual Assistant
Sharing data to cloud
Indicates data is being shared or synced to the cloud.
Sharing GPS to cloud
Indicates GPS info is being shared to the cloud.
Alexa Status (if available)
See & gt;  Infotainment > Virtual Assistant
Wireless Charging
Indicates if a device is charging on wireless charging Pad.
See >   Phone and Projection > Wireless Charger
Chime Mode status
Indicates Chime mode is on mute or reduced.
Notification icon
Tap to access Notification Center.
See >   Infotainment screen > Notifications
Time
Tap to access Date & Time Settings.
See >   Settings > General Settings
Active Profile
Tap to access Profile Settings or Profile drop down.
See >   Infotainment screen > User Profiles
Connected device name
Tap to access Device Connect settings or connected devices drop down menu.
See >   Settings > Device Connect
Downloading status
Tap to access Firmware update page.
See >   Connected Services > Remote Software Update
Passenger Airbag Status
Indicates passenger Airbag Status
See >   Airbags > Operation and Occupant Detection
ODO Meter
Indicates current ODO reading.
See >   Economy & Environment > Trip History
Apps
Apps are located on the bottom right corner of the homepage. To view all the apps, tap on  App library   .
To Launch an App:
Tap  App  icon on the Home page to open it.
App Library
The App library shows all the apps available on the infotainment system.
To open App Library:
Tap  App Library   .
All available apps will be displayed.
To search for an app:
To Search for an app on the app drawer, tap  Search    icon.
Enter keywords in the  Search  field.
Widgets
This feature permanently displays essential information from apps directly to the Homepage.
To add a new Widget:
To add a widget to the home screen, tap Add or Edit Widget.
Select, pick up, and arrange the available widgets in the desired order.
To delete Widgets:
To add a widget to the home screen, tap Add or Edit Widget.
To remove a widget, pick up the widget from the home screen and drop it into the trash bin.
NOTE
Editing the Homepage feature is not accessible while driving.
Touchscreen Use
The touchscreen allows the driver to control/set many vehicle settings like infotainment and climate control for an optimal driving experience.
It is recommended that the vehicle owner familiarize themselves with all touchscreen related content presented in the Owner’s Manual. This not only ensures they will experience the best performance and features the system has to offer but also lowers the risk of driver distraction associated with touchscreen use.
WARNING
When driving, avoid using touchscreen controls or reading lengthy text. Driver distraction can lead to accidents, potentially causing serious injuries or death.
CAUTION
To remove any marks or fingerprints from the touchscreen use a high quality clean microfiber cloth, do not use abrasive materials or cleaning solutions on the touchscreen.
Touch display operation
Selecting a function:
Tap on any function to select it.
Example: To open an app, tap on it.
Zooming In/Out
To zoom into maps, images, or web pages, put your finger and thumb on the touchscreen and spread them apart.
To zoom out, put your finger and thumb on the touchscreen and pinch them together.
Browsing lists and Panning
Browsing Lists:
To scroll down the browsing lists, drag from bottom to top.
To scroll up the browsing lists, drag from top to bottom.
Panning:
This allows the user to change the view to another location by dragging on the screen, without changing its magnification.
View another location on a map or a zoomed in image without changing its magnification by using the panning function.
Notification
Notifications from an application will be shown in the form of a popup on the touchscreen. Tapping on a notification will launch the associated app. If untouched the notification will be automatically dismissed.
Notification Types
There are five different types of notifications:
Notification
Description
Volume Indicator
Indicates volume level of all programs, including Media, Voice Assistance, Parking, and Phone in the vehicle
(includes Mute and Minimum variations).
Banner
Notifications inform of an event currently in progress. (Options may be provided related to the event).
ADAS Prompts
Driving related messages/notifications with recommended actions
(May also provide instructions directly related to current driving conditions).
Dialog
Messages notify of a task and can contain critical information or seek confirmation or direction from the user.
Warnings and Alerts
Informs the user of a vehicle related issue.
(They are shown in Car Control Area and can be reviewed at any time via the vehicle alerts page. Vehicle warnings will be colored depending on importance).
Notification Center
This feature provides a list of all non critical vehicle messages or status indications.
NOTE
For a list of all active critical vehicle warnings See >   Service > Vehicle Status > Alerts.
To open Notification Center:
Slide down from top status bar of touchscreen.
Notification Center window will open directly.
Tap on any notification from list to view details on the respective App﻿.
To Clear notification in Notification Center:
To clear all notifications, tap  Clear All
Swipe left to right on any notification to remove it from the list. OR Tap  X .
To close Notification Center:
Scroll up from the bottom of the touchscreen to Close the Notification Center OR Tap  Close .
NOTE
Notification center cannot be accessed while driving or when valet or guest profile mode is enabled.
WARNING
Reading detailed information on the touchscreen while driving may lead to distraction causing a vehicle collision, injury or death.
User Profiles
Using this feature you can create a profile unique to your likes and preferences. The vehicle will automatically recall the saved settings when the appropriate profile is selected.
Primary profile of the vehicle is linked with a VinFast account. The account must be created on the cloud and approved by the owner before binding to the vehicle.
Secondary profile of the vehicle is linked with a VinFast account. The account must be created on the cloud and approved by the Primary driver before binding to the vehicle.
Examples of vehicle settings that may be saved against a profile:
Sound Settings
Language and System Settings
Device Connection Settings
Light Settings
Navigation Favorites
NOTE
A total of 10 profiles can be created, 1 each for Driver/Owner/Guest/Valet Profiles and 7 Custom Profiles.
Creating new profiles or switching profiles is disabled when the vehicle is not in Park (P).
To create a new Profile:
Tap  Profile Name  >  Create New .
Select Profile type if required.
Enter a name in the text field.
Tap  Next .
After confirmation, the newly created profile will be saved, and a notification will pop up on Infotainment screen.
To delete a profile:
Tap  Profile Name   >   My Profile .
Tap  All Profiles   .
Tap  Three Dot      icon.
Tap  Delete Profile   .
Tap  Delete  to confirm.
NOTE
Driver can create, edit, delete, duplicate depending on the active profile roles.
Profile Settings
This allows the user to adjust/recalibrate the following settings:
Personal Info settings
Authentication settings
Remote control settings﻿
Personalization settings
To access the Profile Settings:
Tap  Profile Name   > My Profile.
Personal Info
This page displays the following information about the user profile:
Full name
Phone number
VinFast account
Avatar image
To edit Name, Profile picture:
Open Profile settings  > Personal info.
Tap  Edit    icon.
To login VinFast Account:
Tap  Link now   .
Enter valid  VinFast Account Email   .
Tap  Link   .
To unlink VinFast account:
Tap  Unlink    icon.
To edit Avatar Image:
Tap  Edit  icon near Avatar image.
Select from available images.
OR
Tap  Image from USB .
Select an image from the available images on the USB .
Edit avatar image with  Rotate/Flip  icons .
Tap  Save .
Authentication
This page allows the user to adjust/recalibrate the following settings:
PIN
Key Fob Linking (if equipped)
To set PIN:
Open Profile settings >  Authentication
Tap Set Up.
Enter 6 Digit PIN.
To Edit/delete PIN:
Open Profile settings >  Authentication
Tap  Edit/Delete PIN .
Enter PIN to confirm.
To Link a Keyfob (if equipped):
Open Profile settings >  Authentication .
Place the key Fob into the center console See >   Driving > Starting and Shutting Down the Vehicle > Low Keyfob Battery.
Tap  Link Key Fob.
To Edit and Remove Key Fob Linking (if equipped):
Open Profile settings >  Authentication .
To activate/deactivate Key Fob Linking, tap  Activate/Deactivate .
To unlink key fob, tap on  Unlink .
Remote Control (if available)
To Link VinFast App:
Tap  App Linking  >  Start Linking.
To link from VinFast app, scan  QR code .
After confirmation, a notification will pop up on screen.
NOTE
Only one phone can be paired at a time. Guest profile can’t change profile’s settings.
To Unlink VinFast App:
Tap  Unlink    icon.
Tap  Unlink  to confirm.
Personalization
If equipped, this allows the driver to save/set Steering Wheel, Side mirror and Driver’s Seat positions to a profile. These settings will be available upon the next profile login.
To save/delete positions:
Tap  Personalization .
To save the current position of  Steering Wheel / Side mirrors / Driver’s Seat , tap  Save new .
To delete a saved position, tap  Delete.
Valet Mode
This feature, when activated, disables certain system features and functions preventing unintended use by another person or access to personal information.
Valet mode can control the following when active:
Restrict access to user profiles.
Prevent the viewing of Home and Work navigation locations.
Front trunk and glove box are locked. (Rear tailgate can still be accessed).
Multimedia: Audio, Video, Image and radio locked.
Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, USB locked.
Vinpilot disabled.
Prevent viewing of repair history.
Navigation disabled.
Voice commands disabled.
Self-learning driving behavior feature OFF.
Games, entertainment (watching movies, listening to music), web browsing unavailable.
Smart Homes control unavailable.
Prevent viewing of Calendar and schedule.
Firmware updates/Software updates disabled.
Activation
Valet mode can be activated by any of the following methods:
Changing profile to Valet.
VinFast App (if available).
To activate Valet Mode by changing Profile
On the status bar, tap  Profile Name   .﻿
To activate Valet Mode, tap on  Valet   .﻿
NOTE
Guest profiles cannot activate Valet Mode.
To activate Valet Mode by VinFast App (if available)
Ensure that the VinFast App is successfully paired with the vehicle.
From the home screen, tap on Remote Control.
On Valet Mode feature, select On/Off.
Valet Mode Settings Overview
Following settings can be adjusted:
Valet PIN  - Edit Valet PIN.
Speed Limit  - Limit the maximum speed of the vehicle.
To access Valet Mode settings:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment Screen﻿.
Tap  Settings     > Security Settings     > Valet Mode .
NOTE
The speed limit can be adjusted in the range of 40-110km/h.
Deactivation
Valet Mode can be deactivated by any of the following methods:
By using Valet Mode PIN.
To deactivate by using Valet Mode PIN:
Tap  Valet mode > Exit Valet Mode.
OR
Tap  Exit Valet Mode .
Enter a valid  PIN .
Camp Mode
This feature enables the user ﻿to extend use of Infotainment screen to access music, web surfing and watch media files in the car without the vehicle accessory power shutting down. ﻿Both front and rear (if equipped) Infotainment screen will be operable in the Camp mode.
Activation
Camp mode can be activated by using:
Car mode on the infotainment
VinFast App (if available)
Preconditions for camp mode activation:
The vehicle must be in  Park (P).
The  Electric Parking Brake  must be applied.
Battery state of charge must be greater than  25% .
To activate Camp Mode:
Tap  Car mode    on the Infotainment Screen.
From vehicle mode selection list, tap  Camp Mode   .﻿
To activate Camp Mode by VinFast App (if available)
Ensure that the VinFast App is successfully paired with the vehicle.
From the home screen, tap on Remote Control.
On Camp Mode feature, select On/Off.
Deactivation
To deactivate/exit Camp Mode:
Tap  Exit Camp Mode  sticky widget on the Car Control Area.
NOTE
The vehicle cannot be started when in Camp Mode. All the infotainment features will be functional.
Camp mode cannot be accessed if the battery percentage is below 25%.
Camp Mode will be automatically deactivated if battery percentage is below 15%.
Unfasten the seat belts before activating the mode.
The touchscreen will be locked automatically if no user activity is detected.
Pet Mode
This feature allows the pets to be left unattended in the vehicle by creating and maintaining a comfortable environment. A notification will be displayed on the touchscreen when this feature is activated.
WARNING
Pet Mode is not intended for people.
Always stay in close proximity to the vehicle when using Pet Mode.
Check the countries laws and regulations for any restrictions on leaving pets unattended in vehicles.
Do not completely rely on Pet mode. Never leave pets in the vehicle unattended for long periods of time.
Constantly monitor the vehicle temperature from mobile device.
Always monitor battery charge levels from your mobile device, since a low battery state of charge will deactivate Pet Mode.
Activation
Preconditions for activating Pet Mode
Pet mode is activated only if the vehicle’s battery state of charge is greater than 25%.
Vehicle Gear position must be in  Park (P)  and seatbelt should be unfastened.
Pet mode can be activated by any of the following methods:
Via the VinFast app .
Via the Infotainment screen
To activate Pet Mode using Car mode on the infotainment:
Tap  Car mode    on the Infotainment screen.﻿
From vehicle mode selection list, tap  Pet Mode   .﻿
To activate Pet Mode by VinFast App (if available)
Ensure that the VinFast App is successfully paired with the vehicle.
From the home screen, tap on Remote Control.
On Pet Mode feature, select On/Off.﻿﻿
Deactivation
Pet mode will be deactivated automatically if:
Climate control is turned off.
When  Park (P)  is disengaged.
The vehicle’s battery state of charge is less than 5%.
To deactivate Pet Mode
Tap  Exit pet mode
To change the default message:
Tap  Edit    icon.
Enter the message in text field, E.g. phone number.
Tap  Change .
WARNING
When the battery state of charge reaches 20%, 15% and then 10%, notifications will be sent to the owner via the VinFast app. When the battery level reaches 5% the system will send another warning to the VinFast app and Pet Mode will be deactivated.

## Infotainment

Infotainment Overview and Key features
The infotainment system can be controlled by using the touchscreen, center console controls, steering wheel controls, and voice assistant. It is used for playing various types of media sources.
Radio – The Radio app allows the listening of FM radio frequency band.  See > Infotainment > Radio.
Bluetooth Audio  - When connected to a valid Bluetooth device you can listen to stored or streamed audio via Bluetooth Media.   See > Infotainment > Bluetooth Audio  .
USB Media  - When connected to a valid USB device you can listen to available audio and video via USB Media.   See > Infotainment > USB Media  .
Podcast  - The Podcast app allows you to download digital audio files on a variety of topics.   See > Infotainment > Podcasts  .
Browser  – The Browser allows drivers and passengers to browse the Internet from the vehicle’s Infotainment Touch Screen Display.  See > Infotainment > Browser.
Games .  See > Infotainment > Games.
Media widget
When you touch on a media widget the associated media source will open in full screen.
Widget overview:
Thumbnail
Heading (song name, channel etc.)
Sub Heading (Artist name)
Media Controls (Previous, Play/Pause, Next)
Media Source Information
Media widget list:
Radio FM
Bluetooth
USB Media
Android Media
Apple CarPlay
Radio
The Radio app allows to tune into FM radio frequency bands and is available as part of the Music App. The Radio app can be operated from both front and rear (if equipped) Infotainment screens.
Operating the Radio
Radio Overview
Favorites toggle
Media source: Radio/USB/Bluetooth/...
Seek/scan/station skip
Launching the Radio App
Radio can be accessed using any of following methods:
O﻿n the touchscreen, tap  App Library   .﻿
Tap  Media    >  Radio   .
Press the  SOURCE  button on the steering wheel controls and select  Radio   .
Station List
The radio station list is automatically updated with nearby stations for each radio frequency band. If available, the station name and radio frequency is displayed on the screen. The  Radio Bar  below the list of stations allows the seek/scan and station skip functions.
To manually search a station:
Tap  Search    icon on top right corner.
Enter station frequency in  Search  field.
Matching stations will appear below the search field. Select your preferred station.
NOTE
The station list will automatically refresh after a period of time.
To control the radio via the steering wheel controls:
See >   Steering Wheel > Functions
Radio Favorites
Favorites can be saved from FM stations lists.
To save a Favorites station:
From FM station list tap the heart icon next to the station you wish to add as a Favorites﻿.
The  Heart  icon will illuminate.﻿
The station will now appear in Favorites list.
To view Favorites:
To view the list of Favorites Stations, tap  Favorites  in the Radio App.
To remove a Favorites station:
From Favorites list, tap  Three Dot  icon next to a Favorites and select  Unfavorite
OR
To remove from Favorites, from the main station list tap the  Heart  icon.
To rename a favorite station:
Select the favorite station to be renamed and tap  Three Dot  icon.
Tap  Rename .
Change name.
Tap  Done .
To rearrange favorite Stations:
Tap and hold the station to rearrange in the station list.
Drag the station to desired position.
Release station. The Favorites station will drop and snap into highlighted position.
NOTE
The Favorites list will be sorted in sequential order with the most recently added station at the top.
Some radio stations may be out of range. These stations will remain stored under Favorites but will not be visible in the Station list.
The maximum number of characters allowed when renaming a station is 16.
WARNING
Continuous use of Infotainment screen controls when driving may lead to distraction causing an accident, leading to serious injuries or death.
Sustained exposure to high sound levels greater than 85 decibels may cause hearing damage.
Bluetooth Audio
Use Bluetooth to connect to a valid Bluetooth device and listen to stored or streaming audio/video via Bluetooth Media. Bluetooth Media is available as part of the Music App.
For more information about Bluetooth connections. See > Settings >   Device Connect  .
Bluetooth Audio Overview
Current Track/Artist
Device Switch
Progress bar
Play/Pause/Track skip
Playing Media
To launch Bluetooth Media:
Bluetooth Media can be accessed by any of the following:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen﻿.
Tap  Media     > Bluetooth Media﻿
OR
Press  SOURCE  button on the steering wheel controls and switch to  Bluetooth Media   .
To change Bluetooth devices:
Tap  Drop down arrow   .
Select available Bluetooth device from the list  .
To change track:
To change track, use  Controls   .
You can change track via connected Bluetooth device
OR
Use steering wheel buttons to change the track.
See >   Steering Wheel > Functions.
WARNING
Do not operate a mobile device while driving. This can cause distraction leading to accident.
NOTE
When Bluetooth is selected and sound is inaudible, check the volume of the infotainment system and mobile device.
USB Media
Connect to a valid USB storage device to play the available audio and video content. USB Media is available as part of the Music App.
For more information about USB connections, see >  U SB Ports & Power Outlets   .
To launch USB Media:
Insert a USB containing Media content in the front USB Data Port.
Tap  App Library    ﻿on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Media     >   USB Media
OR
Press the  Source  button on the steering wheel controls and switch to  USB Media   .
Supported USB Media file types:
Music: M4A, AAC, AMR, WAV, MP3, OGG, FLAC
Video: MP4, TS, WEBM, MKV, 3GP
USB Media Player
Media Player Overview
The USB media player provides details of the current playing media and media playback controls.
Expand Icon
Album Title
Song Title/Artist Name
Song Progress Bar
Media Controls- Shuffle, Previous, Play/Pause, Next, Repeat
Show/Hide Track Queue
To access USB Media Player:
Tap the ‘currently playing’ song bar at the bottom of the USB Media page   or swipe up anywhere on the Media Player Bar.
USB Media tabs
On main screen of USB Media you may find:
Recents
Artist
Genres
Videos
Folder
Recents
This page shows a list of recently played media through the USB Media device.
To open Recents page:
To open Recent window, tap  Recent  tab.
NOTE
Recents shows maximum of 20 recently played songs.
Artists
This page shows a list of available Artists on the USB Media device.
To open Artists page:
Tap  Artists  tab.
Tap any Artist name from the list.
Artist page Overview
Exit Icon
Play All
Back Icon
Currently playing song
Play album
Open USB Media Player
Genres
This page shows a list of available music Genres on the USB Media device.
To open Genres page:
Tap  Genres  tab.
Tap any Genre name from the list.
Genre page overview
Back Icon
Shuffle Play All
Genre Name
Add track to Queue
Media Controls - Previous, Play/Pause, Next
Videos
This   page shows a list of available Video files in the USB Media device.
To open Videos page:
Tap  Videos  tab.
Tap any Video file from the list.
Videos page overview
Expand Icon
Video player queue
Show/Hide Track Queue
Folder Name
Full-screen Mode
Video Title
Video progress bar
Media Controls - Shuffle, Previous, Play/Pause, Next, Repeat
NOTE
In full screen mode, the media controls time out after 5 seconds of inactivity. When you touch the screen again, the video will be paused and media controls will appear.
Video is disabled while driving.
Folders
This page shows a list of available Folders that contain media files on the USB Media device.
To open Folders page:
Tap  Folders  tab.
Tap any Folder name from the list.
NOTE
Only Folders containing media files are displayed on screen.
Folder page overview
Back Icon
Shuffle Play All
Add Track to Queue
Media Controls - Previous, Play/Pause, Next
Currently playing song
USB Search
This feature can be used to search for any media content in the USB media device by pressing the Search icon.
To Search a file in USB Media:
Tap  Search    icon.
Type Media name in the  Search  field.
Tap  Search .
NOTE
Search icon and keyboard will be disabled while driving.
Podcasts
Use this feature to download and listen to Podcasts in digital audio files on a variety of topics.
To launch VNE Podcasts:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.﻿
Tap  VNE Podcast
OR
Press the  Source  (SRC) button on the steering wheel controls and select  VNE Podcast﻿   .
VNE Podcast Player overview
Podcast Topic, Release Date, Title
Playback Speed
Progress Bar
Download Podcast
Media Controls - Previous, Rewind, Play/Pause, Forward, Next
Queue List
Auto Play Toggle
Exit Icon
Expand Icon
Queue Icon
Library
Downloaded podcasts are saved in the Library.
To open Podcast Library:
Tap  Library   .
To change Library View:
Tap  Change View    icon.
To delete a Podcast:
Tap  Delete    icon on the top right corner of VNE Podcast player.
Tap  Delete .
Recents
The list of Podcasts that have been played will automatically be saved in Recents.
To view recently played Podcasts:
Tap  Recents   .
To clear recently played Podcasts:
Tap  Clear All History   .
Podcast Search
To Search for Podcasts:
Tap  Search    icon.
Type name of the podcast in the  Search  field.
Tap  Search .
Browser
The Browser allows the driver and passengers to browse the Internet from the vehicle’s touchscreen. The vehicle must be connected to either a Wi-Fi access point or have an active eSim subscription to launch the browser.
NOTE
The Web Browser requires a Wi-Fi or cellular connection, local carrier charges will apply.
Do not use the browser when driving. Failure to follow this can cause server injuries.
To launch the Browser/Internet App:
On the touchscreen, tap  App Library   .﻿
Tap  Internet﻿   .
Games
The Infotainment system may includes some fun games to enjoy while in camp mode or while waiting for the vehicle to charge.﻿ Games will be listed in the App library, when launched will be displayed on the front Infotainment screen with sound provided by the vehicle’s sound system. Examples of games that may be included:
Baga Big Air
Nancy Drew
Sugar Pop Paradise
Detail on how to play each game can be found inside each app once launched.
To launch a game:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap the game you wish to launch.
WARNING
Never attempt to play games on the Infotainment screen while the vehicle is in motion. Always ensure the vehicle is parked safely, the vehicle park brake is engaged and Park (P) is selected before launching a game app.
NOTE
Availability of games on the infotainment system may vary depending on the car variant and market region.
Voice Assistant
If available, this feature﻿ allows the user to activate and use many of the vehicle functions by using their own voice. The user can use specific terms to get certain activities done by the system. Using Voice Assistant ensures the drivers attention is focused on the road.
How to Trigger Voice Assistant
Voice Assistant can be triggered by any of the following methods:
By using the term “ Hey VinFast ” (if available)﻿.
Short pressing  VA button    on the steering wheel﻿.
I﻿n the status bar, tapping the  VinFast logo .﻿
To Trigger Mirrored Phone’s Voice Assistant:
Mirrored Phone’s Voice Assistant can be triggered by any of the following methods:
By using the term “ Hey Siri” / “Hey Google ”.
Long pressing the  VA button  on the steering wheel.
NOTE
Mirrored Phone’s Voice Assistant (VA) can only be accessed if CarPlay or Android Auto is connected.
Only one Mirrored Phone’s Voice Assistant can be used.
To End a Voice Assistant session:
Short press the  VA button  on the steering wheel.
Press anywhere around the VinFast   logo in the status bar.
Use the term “ Exit”  or  “Cancel ”.
To Access command list Help (VinFast Voice Assistant):
Use the term “ Hey VinFast ” and ask about “Help”, “Guide” etc.
Command list will be displayed on touchscreen.
Scroll down to see all available options.
Tap any option to expand it.
NOTE
Command list Help is only shown when the vehicle is in Park (P).
A voice prompt is provided to guide the user if the car is in Drive.
Examples of VinFast Voice commands:
Category
Command
Apps
Open Settings app
Open EV app
Open ADAS app
Phone
Call James, Call Mom
Open Recent call
Navigation
Navigate to coffee shop
Media
Turn on Bluetooth
Climate control
Increase temperature
Decrease temperature
Turn off the air conditioner
Calendar
Scheduled appointment
What is todays date?
Settings
Open lighting settings
Open Wifi settings
Open display settings
General
Tell me about vehicle features
How to fix vehicle issues example (how to fix TPMS issue)
Book charging
To access Voice Assistant settings:
To access Voice Assistant Settings, See   > Settings > Voice Assistant

## Car Control Area

Car Control Area﻿ Overview
Car Control Area is located on the left side of the Infotainment screen which displays vehicle and system status information along with providing access or adjustment to key vehicle controls. Car Control Area replaces many of the displays and controls traditionally supplied by a driver’s instrument cluster or physical switches and buttons. The Car Control Area display is dynamic and will change view mode depending on the current vehicle state, gear selected or feature or function activated. Key features of Car Control Area are listed in Display Overview.
Display Overview
Gear Selected
A indicator will display on status bar on the top of Car Control Area
Power and Regen Gauge
Odometer
Odometer reading of vehicle
Time
Battery State of Charge / Vehicle Range
Touch to access EV Battery App
Speedometer
Current speed of the vehicle in km/h or mph
Car Control Zone
Quick Control
Tap to adjustment the liftgate, Hood, Sunroof Open/Closed and Wiper.
Ergonomic control
Tap to access adjustment the HUD, Mirror, Steering wheel
Lighting Controls
Tap to access exterior lighting controls including headlights
Car mode
Tap to access adjustment the car mode and regen level
Car Controls via Car Control Area
Depending on the Car Control Area view mode access to control and adjustment of certain vehicle features will be provided. When control is available a round touch target will appear alongside the vehicle feature. Tapping on the touch target will open the controls card.
Viewing Modes
Depending on vehicle speed and selected gear the Car Control Area vehicle will automatically change view mode.
In addition Car Control Area will also show dynamic representations of the following:
Liftgate and Hood open/closed
Headlights and Taillights
Charge Handle and Charging Status
ADAS features Enabled or Active
Car Control Area Chase Me View
Chase Me View will be displayed whenever the vehicle is in motion. In Chase Me View access to rear cargo compartment, hood and steering wheel adjustment control cards will be disabled. Depending on which features or functions are currently active the following may be displayed:
Lane assist guidelines
Forward Collision Warning System status and Gap Setting
Adaptive Cruise Control System status
Highway Assist and Auto Lane Changing Assist status
Car Control Area Parked View
Parked View will be displayed whenever the vehicle is stationary. In Park View the following car controls will become available:
Camera
Turn warning sound on/off
Parking assistance (if equipped)
Warning Lights and Indicators
All important vehicle system related warnings and alerts will be shown on the touchscreen display in the lower section of Car Control Area.﻿ The driver may tap on the popup to view further detail of each warning. See >   Vehicle Alerts  .
In addition to a warning notification a corresponding telltale may illuminate in the upper section of Car Control Area. Telltales will stay illuminated until the vehicle fault is repaired or resolved.
Telltale Icons:
Airbag Malfunction
Seatbelt Reminder
ABS Malfunction
Automatic Emergency Braking (AEB) Off
Auto High Beam
High Beam
Front Fog Lights
Rear Fog Lights
Child Presence Detection Off (if available)
ESC/TCS Off
EV System Malfunction
Brake System Faults
Parking Brake Applied
TPMS Malfunction
Low Power
Position Lights
Park Brake Malfunction
Vehicle Ready to Drive
Safety Warnings
Turn Indicator/Hazard Lights
ADAS Indicators
ADAS indicators appear on the Car Control Area screen, directly below the speedometer. Content includes important information related to ADAS features such as; Traffic signs, Adaptive Cruise Set speed and ADAS related telltales.
Trip Information
The Trip information app calculates key driving statistics about each vehicle journey and displays them on the touchscreen.
A summary of trip information is displayed in the status bar above Car Control Area and a more detailed summary of trip history and driving statistics can be found in Trip History. See >   Economy & Environment > Trip History.
Trip Type
There are three separate trip meters available:
A
B
AUTO
A summary of the above information is shown in the status bar.
To Toggle trip between trip meter displays on the status bar:
Press   to Toggle through  Trip A / B /AUTO
To reset the currently displayed trip information:
Long press of  TRIP button    on the left stalk﻿
Trip Information Page
To open the detailed trip information page:
Tap on  ODO/Trip info    on the touchscreen.﻿
To select a trip meter:
Tap on  Trip  to select.
To reset trip from infotainment screen
Tap on  Reset.
Tire Pressure Monitoring System
As an added safety feature, the vehicle has been equipped with a tire pressure monitoring system (TPMS) that illuminates a low tire pressure telltale   when one or more tires is significantly under-inflated. Tap on the warning will take the user to the vehicle alerts page.
Accordingly, when the low tire pressure telltale illuminates, the driver should stop and check the tires as soon as possible, and inflate them to the proper pressure. Driving on a significantly under-inflated tire causes the tire to overheat and can lead to tire failure. Under-inflation also reduces fuel efficiency and tire tread life, and may affect the vehicle’s handling and stopping ability. See >   Vehicle Alerts  .
If the vehicle loses the connection with a tire sensor, a Sensor Connection Lost warning will show up. For more information, see > Maintenance >   Wheels and Tires > TPMS  .
Tire Pressure Monitoring System Overview
Each tire, including the spare (if provided), should be checked monthly when cold and inflated to the inflation pressure recommended by the vehicle manufacturer on the vehicle placard or tire inflation pressure label. (If your vehicle has tires of a different size than the size indicated on the vehicle placard or tire inflation pressure label, you should determine the proper tire inflation pressure for those tires.)
As an added safety feature, your vehicle has been equipped with a tire pressure monitoring system (TPMS) that illuminates a low tire pressure telltale when one or more of your tires is significantly under-inflated. Accordingly, when the low tire pressure telltale illuminates, you should stop and check your tires as soon as possible, and inflate them to the proper pressure. Driving on a significantly under-inflated tire causes the tire to overheat and can lead to tire failure. Under-inflation also reduces fuel efficiency and tire tread life, and may affect the vehicle’s handling and stopping ability.
Please note that the TPMS is not a substitute for proper tire maintenance, and it is the driver’s responsibility to maintain correct tire pressure, even if under-inflation has not reached the level to trigger illumination of the TPMS low tire pressure telltale.
Your vehicle has also been equipped with a TPMS malfunction indicator to indicate when the system is not operating properly. The TPMS malfunction indicator is combined with the low tire pressure telltale. When the system detects a malfunction, the telltale will flash for approximately one minute and then remain continuously illuminated. This sequence will continue upon subsequent vehicle start-ups as long as the malfunction exists. When the malfunction indicator is illuminated, the system may not be able to detect or signal low tire pressure as intended. TPMS malfunctions may occur for a variety of reasons, including the installation of replacement or alternate tires or wheels on the vehicle that prevent the TPMS from functioning properly. Always check the TPMS malfunction telltale after replacing one or more tires or wheels on your vehicle to ensure that the replacement or alternate tires and wheels allow the TPMS to continue to function properly.
WARNING
If the TPMS sensor gets damaged it may not function.
To access Tire pressure from the Vehicle Health page:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Service    >  Vehicle Status    >  Tire Pressure .
Tire Pressure Warnings
TPMS system warns the driver if the tire pressure is below or above the recommended pressure. If an issue or missing sensor signal is detected, a TPMS alert symbol   will be displayed on the touchscreen. In addition an alert popup will be shown on the screen and an audible chime will be generated at the same time.
See >   Maintenance > Wheels and Tires > TPMS   for more details.
NOTE
Tire pressures should be checked regularly, using an accurate pressure gauge when the tires are cold. Inflate the tires to the recommended pressure as specified by the vehicle manufacturer on the vehicle placard or tire inflation pressure label.
WARNING
Driving with incorrectly inflated tire(s) can affect the vehicle handling, steering and braking. This can lead to an accident, causing serious injury or risk to life.
Always adopt the correct tire pressure in accordance with the driving condition and vehicle load. Overloading can lead to loss of vehicle control and increase the risk of an accident.
Incorrect tire pressure increases tire wear and has a negative effect on driving and braking behavior, which increases the risk of an accidents.
TMPS Failure
TPMS failures can occur for a variety of reasons, including the installation of replacement or alternate tires or wheels, which prevents the TPMS from functioning properly. After replacing one or more tires or wheels on the vehicle, always check the TPMS malfunction indicator light to ensure that the replacement tires or wheels allow the TPMS to continue to function properly.
NOTE
The TPMS malfunction indicator and the tire pressure indicator light are combined  . When the system detects a malfunction, the indicator flashes for about one minute before remaining lit continuously. This sequence will be repeated on subsequent vehicle starts as long as the malfunction exists. When the TPMS malfunction indicator is activated, the system may fail to detect or signal under- or over-inflated tires as intended. Please visit a VinFast Service Center for more information.
Vehicle Alerts
Vehicle Alerts page shows all vehicle related alerts and warning messages that are currently present on the vehicle. The alerts page will also provided additional information or recommended user actions associated with each vehicle warning.
When a vehicle alert is triggered it will first be displayed in a notification below Car Control Area along with a matching telltale icon.
To view Vehicle Alerts:
Tap the  Popup Message  below Car Control Area
OR,
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.﻿
Tap  Service     > Vehicle Alerts > Alerts.
Tap  Expand  icon to view details of alerts﻿.
WARNING
Vehicle alerts will remain in the Alerts tab until the fault is repaired by an approved technician. Follow all warning message instructions and if required contact the nearest VinFast Service Center as soon as possible. Failure to do this may result in vehicle damage or personal injury.

## Head Up Display

Head Up Display
The Head Up Display or HUD is a feature that is used to help keep the driver’s attention on the road ahead while displaying all the necessary information on the windshield. The HUD projects the selected information on the windshield, in the driver’s field of vision.
Head Up Display shows the following information:
Navigation
Speedometer, Gear position and Range
ADAS Content
Notifications and Alerts
NOTE
Unfavorable lighting conditions may affect the visibility of the display.
Visibility of the HUD might be affected if the driver is wearing a pair of polarized sunglasses.
It is recommended to stop the vehicle before adjusting the HUD settings.
CAUTION
Do not tint or add metallic coatings to the front windshield glass. This can obscure the Head-Up Display image.
Don’t attach any objects to the windshield glass or place anything on the crash pad.
Install only approved windshield glass designed for operation with the Head-Up Display when replacing the front windshield glass. Failure to do so may cause images to appear duplicated on the windshield glass.
Head Up Display Adjustment Settings
To access Head Up Display Settings:
Tap Ergonomic icon   in the Car Control Area area of the Infotainment screen.
Tap to Head up display icon   to open the Head up display setting.
Content Options
Use Head Up Display Settings to customize the content displayed on the Head Up Display.
The following content options are available in Head Up Display Settings:
Show/Hide Navigation
Show/Hide Driver Assistance.
Show/Hide Turn Indicator
Show/Hide Blind Spot Detection
Show/ Hide Rear Cross Traffic Alert
Adjust the brightness of the HUD using the slider.
Select the primary color: Green, Blue, or White.
Change Battery Unit display on HUD screen
Turn on/off HUD
NOTE
Voice Assistant cannot operate this action.
Adjust HUD position
Height and Rotation
You can adjust the Head Up Display position on the windshield to suit your driving position from the Head Up Display Settings.
To adjust Head Up Display height:
Tap  Position adiustment .
Press Up (+)  or  Down (-)  buttons on the steering wheel controls to adjust the height of Head Up Display.
To adjust Head Up Display Rotation:
Press Left (<)  or  Right (>)  arrow buttons on the left steering wheel controls to adjust rotation of Head Up Display.

## Navigation

Navigation﻿ Overview
The Navigation app allows the driver to navigate to a selected destination by displaying the route information on the touchscreen and on the Head Up Display (HUD).
To open Navigation App
On the home screen, tap the  Navigation widget
OR,
On the touchscreen, tap  App Library   .﻿
Tap  Maps﻿   .
Live traffic
If available, through Infotainment System and/or C-App, Live traffic shows real-time traffic status that helps you to keep a check on the traffic situation so that you can better plan your route.
When on map view screen, choose Live traffic.
NOTE
Functionality and availability may vary depending on the market and vehicle version. Contact an authorized VinFast dealer for more information
Satellite view
If available, through Infotainment System and/or C-App, the satellite view enables you to get satellite images on the map. It can be handy to see a real-world top-down view of the location.
When on map view, choose Satellite view.
NOTE
Functionality and availability may vary depending on the market and vehicle version. Contact an authorized VinFast dealer for more information
Navigation Safety
Ensure the following instructions or warnings have been read and fully understood before using the navigation system.
WARNING
Failure to use the navigation system safely can lead to an accident, serious injuries, or death.Ensure that the user is aware of all local traffic laws and road characteristics. It is always the driver’s responsibility to determine the safety of the route being suggested. Driver should operate the vehicle appropriately according to current road and environment conditions.
Road Traffic Regulations must always be followed even when driving with the assistance of the Navigation System. The Navigation system is not a substitute for safe driving and with due care.
Destination Search
The user can Search for a destination using the Search box, Point Of Interest (POI)/ Category, and Saved destinations.
To search for a Destination:
Tap on  Search field .
Enter Name of the destination.
Tap on  Search.
WARNING
Do not use Search feature while vehicle is in motion, as it can cause distraction and lead to accidents causing serious injuries or death.
Search by Category
Destinations can be searched by category.
To search by Category/Point Of Interest (POI):
Tap  Search    icon.
Select desired  Category  from the available options.
Place Detail Card
The Place Detail Card will be displayed on the Infotainment screen after selecting a destination. The Place Detail Card shows detailed information about the selected destination including (when available):
NOTE
You can also make a call by tapping on phone number displayed on the Place Detail Card.
Saved Places
Places can be saved as Favorites, Home or Work.
To save a Place:
Tap  Heart  icon on the Place Detail Card to save a place as Favorite.
OR
Long press  Heart  icon to open  Saving Options .
Select an option from the list to save/set a place as  Favorite /Home/ Work.
To remove Saved Places:
Tap on  Favorites .
Select the desired Saved place from the list.
Long press the saved place and tap  Delete favorite .
OR
Tap  Home  icon then tap  Remove Home .
NOTE
Only one place can be saved as Home/Work. Also, same place cannot be saved in both Home and Work category, at the same time.
The Navigation App requires a cellular connection for some functionality. Local carrier fees will apply.
Route Preview
A Route Preview is displayed on the  My Route  card when a destination has been selected.
To open My Route Card:
Tap  Directions .
Alternative Route
All the available routes are displayed in  My Route  card. Select the route according to your preference.
To select a Route:
Tap any of the available Route options.
Route Details
This shows detailed information of a selected route. It displays the information on Travel Time, Current Battery State of Charge, Remaining distance to the Destination, Approximate Battery State of Charge Upon Reaching the Destination and Turn by Turn Navigation on the selected route.
Navigational Route Preference
Use Route Preference to select specific route types and route options. Some of the available route preferences are:
Auto -Add Charging
Route type - Fastest, Shortest
Route options such as - Avoid Toll roads, Avoid Highways
To add a Stop on a Route:
Tap  Add Stop .
Enter destination name in the  Search field  or   select a  Category  from the list.
Select the place from the list or category.
Tap  Add Stop .
To Remove a Stop:
Select any place from the list.
Tap  Remove Stop .
To change Route order:
Tap  Edit Route  on the   Route Details card.
Tap and hold  Three Dash  icon to move it up or down.
Tap  Finish .
To delete Route:
Tap  Delete  icon.
Navigation Guidance View
Navigation Guidance View and turn by turn navigation information is displayed on the Infotainment screen once a navigation route is selected. If another native App is opened, the turn by turn navigation information is displayed on Head Up Display (HUD).
Maneuverer Panel
Search a stop
Trip Overview
Remaining distance/Time remaining/Estimated Time of Arrival
Battery Remaining (at arrival)
End guidance mode
To add a stop in the route:
Tap  Search a stop   .
Select any  Category .
Select a place from the list.
Tap  Add Stop .
To remove a stop:
Tap  Remove Stop .
Navigating with an EV
The Navigation system equipped in this vehicle has a series of unique features specifically designed to support driving and navigating with an Electric Vehicle.
Charging Station Finder
Driver can find and add a charging station as a destination using Destination Search.﻿ See >   Navigation > Destination Search.
Automatic addition of charging stations along a route
The system will automatically add charging stations to a chosen route if it determines the battery state of charge will not be sufficient to complete the journey or satisfy the minimum state of charge settings as chosen by the driver.
To enable Automatic addition of charging stations to the route:
Tap  Navigation Settings    >  Route Preferences   .
Toggle Auto Add Charging Station    to turn ON/OFF automatic addition of charging stations to the route.
Specific EV Settings
EV Settings allows driver to set:
Charge limit.
Plan time for charging setup.
Charging target at charging stations.
For more detail, See >   Navigation > Navigation Settings.
VinFast App and Navigation
Prior to a journey, the driver can create a navigational route on their VinFast App and send it to the vehicle’s navigation system. The vehicle navigation system will then use this route to complete the journey.
To send a navigation route to the vehicle:
Select a destination in the VinFast app using the Navigation System.
Tap  Share to Vehicle﻿.
The Navigation route will be sent to the vehicle.
On Infotainment screen, tap﻿  Navigate Now  to accept the route on the Infotainment screen.﻿
The vehicle’s Navigation system will then guide the driver to the destination﻿.
Navigation Settings
The Navigation Settings page consists of the following settings:
Navigation  - Settings for navigating a journey.﻿
EV Settings  - Specific Settings for navigating with an EV.﻿
Maps  - Settings for customizing map.﻿
About  - Map software stored data and version information.
To access Navigation Settings﻿:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Maps     >   Settings .﻿
Navigation
You can set Route Preferences and Guidance Options through Navigation Settings.
NOTE
Route preferences will be applied to all route maps.
EV Settings
Use EV settings to select the minimum state of charge allowed for the EV Battery at the end of a journey. The navigation system proposes a navigation route that ensures the minimum state of charge is maintained once the destination is reached.
Upon reaching a waypoint or destination
The system allows you to select an appropriate battery percentage for remaining journey before reaching a waypoint or destination.
Tap any of the available options to set what battery percentage is to be remaining upon reaching a waypoint or destination.
Upon reaching a Charging Station
The system allows you to select an appropriate battery percentage for the remaining journey before reaching a charging station.
Tap any of the available options to set a battery percentage to be remaining upon reaching a charging station.
At a Charging Station
The system allows you to set a charging percentage so that the battery is at a desired level upon arrival at a charging station.
Tap any of the available options to set a target for the battery to charge to a desired level.
Map
Following settings can be accessed in  Map  tab:
Offline Maps
POI Categories
Theme
Offline Maps:
The Navigation system relies on Internet connection to cache and present map information on the Infotainment screen. This ensures map data is always up to date. However, you may select to download maps offline directly to the Infotainment system. Offline maps can be beneficial in areas of poor or no Internet connectivity and can be enabled automatically if previously downloaded.
To download a new Offline Map:
Tap  Map  tab  >   Offline Map .﻿
Tap  Select map from catalogue .
Select  Continent  from the list.﻿
Select  Country/Region  from the list.﻿
Tap  Download  icon.﻿
POI Categories
Point of interest categories can be customized, this feature allows driver to select specific POI categories which will be displayed on the map.
Following POI categories are available:
Charging Station
Map
Select map from catalogue
Parking
About
Food & Drink
Service Center
Shopping
Hospital
To select POI Categories:
Tap  Map  tab  >   POI Categories .﻿
Choose categories to display on springboard﻿﻿.
Theme:
This allows driver to change map themes as per requirement.
To change theme:
Tap  Map  tab  >   Themes .﻿
Select desired theme to set﻿﻿.
About
This page displays Software Version number. Also, you can delete history and all data from app. Default settings can also be restored from about page.
To Clear History:
Tap  About  tab  > Clear history > Clear.
To Clear all data:
Tap  About  tab  > Delete all my data > Delete.
To Restore default settings:
Tap  About  tab  > Restore default settings > Restore.
NOTE
If there is no historical data available or historical data has just been deleted. The delete option or delete icon will be disabled.

## Phone & Projection

Phone
The Bluetooth capable Infotainment system in conjunction with the embedded Virtual Assistant and steering wheel controls allows hands-free calling and receiving of phone calls﻿.
A compatible Bluetooth phone must be connected to use the phone app.
NOTE
Not all Bluetooth phones support all functions.
CAUTION
In order to minimize driver distraction, prior to driving and while the vehicle is parked:
1. Complete all pairing of mobile devices.
2. Familiarize yourself with all system functionality and controls.
3. Organize contact and call lists clearly and avoid duplicates.
To Launch the Phone App:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Phone App   .
Using the Phone App:
The following tabs/pages are available on the phone app:
Recents – Shows all call history when phone connected
Contacts – Lists all available contacts from phone
Keypad – Allows manual entry and dialing of phone numbers
NOTE
Upon initial connection, please allow time for all contacts to be synced from phone.
Steering Wheel phone button behavior:
Certain Phone app functions can be controlled via the steering wheel  Phone button  . Based on which  Phone  app screen is currently active the phone button may perform a different task summarized below:
Function
Phone Button
Recent
Contacts
Search
Keypad
Short/Long press
Incoming call
Short press to Accept call
Long press to Reject call
During an Active call / Single call
Short/Long press to End Active Call
2 Active calls
Short/Long press to End Current Call & Switch to second call
During an Outgoing call
Short / Long press to End Outgoing Call
1 Active call + 1 Incoming call
Short press to Accept Incoming Call and put 1  st  Call on Hold.
Long press to Reject 2  nd  call
Phone App General Overview:
Recents
Contacts
Keypad
Setting (if available)
NOTE
If DND is on, incoming calls are not allowed and are diverted as per phone settings.
Recent
The  Recent  tab lets the user see past calls from their phone. The recent call list can be viewed by tapping on the  Recent  tab at the  Phone  app window. Tapping on any entry in the  Recent  list will initiate a call to that number.
Types of call icons:
Incoming Call
Declined or Missed Call
Outgoing Call
Contacts
Phone contacts can be viewed by tapping on the  Contacts  tab on the  Phone  app window. Contacts stored in the memory of a paired phone will be synced to the vehicle’s contact list. The contact list is synced each time the phone is connected to the system.
NOTE
The search box appears in its disabled state if there is data indexed but the car is in motion and keyboard use is not permitted.
To search for a contact:
Tap  Search    icon on the contacts page.
Enter Contact Name/Number in the  Search  field.
Tap  Search.
NOTE
Previously searched contacts will be displayed in Recent searches.
Up to 10 recent searches are displayed in the recent list below the search text field.
Keypad
Dial the phone number manually using the keypad.
To call a number, enter the phone number using the keypad. If the number entered matches with a saved contact, it will show the contact details on the screen.
NOTE
Pressing and holding “0” will enter “+” in the text box.
Incoming Call
During an incoming call, the caller ID will appear on the Infotainment screen. If the contact is saved in the user’s phone then the person’s name and number is also displayed. To answer an incoming call, tap on the green  Accept  button on the screen or short press the  Phone  button on the steering wheel. To Decline a call, tap on the Red  Decline  button on the screen or long press the  Phone  button on the steering wheel.
The following options are available during a call
Full Incoming Call Window
Contact Avatar (if available)
Contact Name and Number
Reject Call
Accept Call
Incoming Call Banner
When a new incoming call is present an  Incoming Call  notification will appear on the Infotainment screen. The notification will contain a caller ID, Accept and Decline options. Taping on the notification will take the user to the incoming call window.
NOTE
If the Do Not Disturb (DND) function is ON, incoming calls are not allowed and are diverted according to the mobile phone settings.
Active call / Single Call:
While a call is active the call duration and contact details will be shown.
Call Duration
Expand Keypad
End Call
Mute Call
Switch to Handset Device
Exit - Active Call Window.
NOTE
When the user exits the Active call window to use other apps or go to the home screen, the active call window minimizes and docks a card on top of the Infotainment screen.
Incoming Call over an Active Call:
Accepting a second call will put the active call on Hold and switch to the new call. The call on hold will be displayed on the right side of the  Active Call  window.
Tap on the  Caller ID  to switch back to the call on Hold. This will put the second call on hold and it will be displayed on the right side of the  Active Call  window.
USB Ports & Power Outlets
USB Ports
The vehicle is equipped with five USB ports:
Two USB ports are located under the touchscreen in the center console﻿.
Three USB ports are located in the rear of center console below the AC vents﻿.
Front USB Ports
2x Type – A USB Ports.
NOTE
The port on the driver’s side can be used to transfer data (i.e. play music, connect Android Auto & CarPlay) and charge devices.
The port on the front passenger side can be used only for charging (capable of fast charging).
Rear USB Ports
2x Type – A USB Ports
1x Type – C USB Port.
NOTE
All rear USB ports are for charging devices only.
The single USB Type-C port is rated at 90W.
All the USB ports are illuminated, for ease of access in dark conditions.
Always disconnect the USB cable after use.
CAUTION
Connecting multiple devices using a USB hub is not recommended, this can prevent connected devices from charging or from being recognized by the infotainment system.
Unplug all accessories when not in use to prevent an electrical short if the unconnected end contacts another power source or liquid.
WARNING
It is recommended to connect an input device only when the vehicle is stationary. Trying to connect an input device while driving may distract driver’s attention and can lead to an accident.
Power Outlet
The vehicle is equipped with a power outlet located in the right side of the rear luggage compartment. To access the low voltage outlet, remove the protective cap. The power outlet is suitable for accessories requiring up to 12V (120 W) Max.
CAUTION
Only use 12 volts electric accessories which consume less than 120 watts.
Some electronic devices and accessories can cause electronic interference when plugged into a vehicle’s power outlet. These devices may cause excessive audio static and malfunctions in other electronic systems or devices used in the vehicle.
Use devices equipped with batteries with reverse current protection. The current from the battery may flow into the vehicle’s electrical system and cause system malfunction.
WARNING
Close the power outlet cap when not in use.
Do not allow children to use or play with the power outlet. Children may get seriously injured.
Never use the power outlet for electric heaters while sleeping. Doing so can cause serous injury or death.
Never insert foreign objects into the power outlet. Doing so can cause serous injury or death.
Never use faulty electrical appliances. Doing so can cause serious injury or death.
Never insert inappropriate or badly fitting plugs into the power outlet. Doing so can cause serous injury or death.
Never jump start a vehicle using the 12V power outlet.
The power socket and an accessory’s connector can become hot. Touching hot surfaces can cause burn.
Wireless Charger
The wireless charger provided in the front and rear (if available) console of the vehicle can charge Qi compatible devices wirelessly. To charge a Qi compatible device, place the device on the charging pads to start charging the device. The wireless charger can be set to On or Off depending on the user’s preference.
The charger will show charging status and any relevant notifications of the phone on the Infotainment screen. It also reminds the user if the phone is left behind in the car upon exit (phone forget reminder).
NOTE
The vehicle must be on and all doors closed to enable wireless charging.
The wireless phone charger does not charge if the vehicle’s high voltage Battery is discharged.
The wireless phone charger may not work if your phone case is too thick or is made of metal. Try removing the phone from its case before placing it on the charger.
NOTE
To correctly charge the phone it must be in direct contact with the wireless charger.
CAUTION
Do not place objects between the phone and the charger (for example, credit cards, key cards, coins, keys, metal objects, etc.).
Placing foreign objects such as coins, cards, keys etc on the wireless charger pad will trigger foreign object detection warning and cut of power supply to the charger.
Near Field Communication (NFC) enabled cards may get damaged if kept on the wireless charger pad.
Avoid spilling water or other liquids on the wireless charger, as excessive or repeated spillage can cause malfunction. (The charger is IP52 rated).
The  Lightning Bolt    icon in the status bar indicates when wireless charging is active.
NOTE
When the device is completely charged the lightning bolt icon disappears.
How to Turn On/Off Wireless Charging:
Tap the  App Library  icon   on the Infotainment screen.
Tap on  Settings  app    > Vehicle Settings     > Wireless Charging.
Toggle to turn  On/Off front  wireless charging.
Toggle to turn  On/Off rear  wireless charging.
To turn On/Off Wireless Charging from quick controls from the Infotainment screen
Swipe down from top of the Infotainment screen.
Toggle to turn  On/Off  wireless charging.
Wireless Charging Fault
If there is a fault with the wireless charging system, a corresponding warning will be shown as a notification on the touchscreen. Contact a VinFast Service Center.
Android Auto™
If avaiable, Android Auto™ is used to mirror features of an Android device, such as a smartphone, on the vehicle’s Infotainment screen. Android Auto™ can be launched on the Infotainment screen when a compatible device is connected.
NOTE
Android Auto™ is provided by Google and is subjected to Google’s terms and conditions. Local data plan rates may apply.
Connecting to Android Auto™
Android Auto™ can be launched by connecting a compatible device either via a USB cable or Bluetooth.﻿ For more information about connecting your device for the first time, see >   Settings > Device  Settings .
NOTE
Setup of Android Auto™ can be done only when the vehicle is in Park (P).
To launch Android Auto™:
Connect the android device to the vehicle via a USB cable or Bluetooth.
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Android Auto™   .
Follow the on-screen instructions to connect via USB or Bluetooth.
If multiple audio sources including Android Auto™ are active and playing media then:
Press the  Source  button on the steering wheel controls to switch to  Android Auto™  .
Android Auto™ can be launched by any of the following methods:
Via pop-up after connecting with USB
Via pop-up after connecting with Bluetooth
Via Device Settings
Connecting via USB Cable:
Connect a compatible device to the vehicle via a USB cable.
Tap  Start    to launch Android Auto™.
Connecting via Bluetooth:
Turn  ON  Bluetooth in your compatible device.
Tap a  Device Name    in the Bluetooth list to start the pairing process.
Tap on the  Green check    icon on the popup notification.
Tap  Pair  in your device .
Now your device will be displayed in the connected Devices list.
A  Pop-up card  will automatically prompt to launch Android Auto™ for the paired device.
Tap  Start  to launch Android Auto™.
Launching via Device Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Settings    >  Device settings   .
Tap  Device list   .
Tap  Three dots    icon.
Tap  Start   Android Auto™   .
For more information about connecting your device, See >   Settings > Device  Settings .
To disconnect Android Auto™:
Disconnect the USB cable from the phone or the vehicle.
Disconnect Bluetooth device from Bluetooth settings.
Disconnect from Device Settings, See >   Settings > Device  Settings .
To use Google Assistant™ when Android Auto™ is connected:
Long Press the Voice Assistant button on the steering wheel to wake up Google Assistant™.
Apple CarPlay™
If avaiable, Apple CarPlay™ is used to mirror features of an iOS device, such as a smartphone, on the vehicle’s Infotainment screen. Apple CarPlay™ can be launched on the Infotainment screen when a compatible device is connected.
NOTE
Apple CarPlay™ is provided by Apple and is subject to Apple’s Terms and Conditions. Local data plan rates may apply.
Connecting to Apple CarPlay™
Apple CarPlay™ can be launched by connecting a compatible device via Bluetooth.﻿ For more information about connecting your device, see >  S ettings > Device    Settings.
NOTE
The setup of Apple CarPlay™ can be done only when the vehicle is in Park (P).
To launch Apple CarPlay™:
Connect the iOS device to the vehicle via Bluetooth.
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Apple CarPlay™
Follow the on-screen instructions to connect via Bluetooth.
Apple CarPlay™ can be launched by any of the following methods:
Via pop-up after connecting with Bluetooth
Via Device Settings
Connecting via Bluetooth:
Turn  ON  Bluetooth in your compatible device.
Tap a  Device Name    in the Bluetooth list to start the pairing process.
Tap on the  Green check    icon on the popup notification.
Tap  Pair  in your device .
Now your device will be displayed in the connected Devices list.
A  Pop-up card  will automatically prompt to launch Apple CarPlay™ for the paired device.
Tap  Start  to launch Apple CarPlay™.
Launching via Device Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Settings    >  Device settings   .
Tap  Device list   .
Tap  Three dots    icon.
Tap  Start   Apple CarPlay™   .
For more information about Connecting Your Device, s  ee > Settings > Device  Settings .
To disconnect Apple CarPlay™:
Disconnect Bluetooth Device from Bluetooth Settings.
Disconnect from Device Settings, see >   Settings > Device  Settings .
To use SIRI™ when Apple CarPlay™ is connected:
Long Press the Voice Assistant button on the steering wheel to wake up SIRI™.

## VinFast App

Overview and Key Features
The VinFast application is a mobile app that provides various useful services for VinFast vehicle owners.
Information regarding the features of the VinFast application in this user guide is for reference only. The actual interface and functionalities may vary depending on the region, vehicle model, and release version.
Some key features of the VinFast application include:
Viewing battery charging status and vehicle condition.
Using remote control features such as air conditioning, door locks, etc.
Searching for charging stations, scheduling services, or requesting support online.
Planning trips and sending routes directly to the vehicle (if applicable).
Monitoring the current vehicle status.
Accessing the user manual.
CAUTION
The VinFast application requires a WiFi or mobile network connection. Data charges may apply.
Registration and Sign In
To use the VinFast application, you need to download the app and create an account.
Downloading the Application:
Access the Apple App Store (iOS) or Google Play Store (Android).
Search for and download the VinFast application.
Registering an Account:
Open the application and tap Register on the login screen.
Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions.
Enter your username (email address) and create a password.
Check your inbox for the verification email and confirm your registration.
Set up fingerprint/Face ID authentication (optional).
Logging In:
Tap the VinFast icon on your phone to open the application.
Enter your registered email and password.
Forget password:
If you forget your password, you can reset it by:
Selecting Forgot Password on the login screen.
Entering your registered email address.
Choosing Reset Password.
Checking your email and following the instructions to create a new password.
Vehicle and User Management
Guest Homepage
Before owning a VinFast vehicle, you can use the app to explore detailed specifications and services. When you launch the app and register, the guest home page will appear.
Linking VinFast App with a vehicle
Vehicle Owner
When purchasing a VinFast vehicle, the dealer will assist you in creating a VinFast ID, which identifies you as the vehicle owner.
Use the email address registered with your VinFast ID when creating your account in the VinFast App for automatic linking to your vehicle.
If the vehicle information does not sync automatically in the app or if your vehicle is not linked to your account, please contact your VinFast dealer for support.
For Secondary Drivers
You can also add or remove secondary drivers to use the VinFast App.
Contact the vehicle owner and ask to be added as a driver.
The owner will use Role Management to add the additional driver’s ccount to their vehicle.
The additional driver should provide the same email address they used to register the VinFast App.
The vehicle owner will send an invitation for the additional driver to add a vehicle.
The additional driver may:
Access and control owner’s vehicle using the VinFast App.
Add / Remove one additional driver account.
Home - VinFast ID. Tap on General Info on the Guest Homepage for more information.
Overview of the Owner’s Home Page
The home page provides users with key features, including:
Current vehicle information
Remote control (if available)
Battery and charging status
Driving assistance (if available)
Vehicle settings
Vehicle services
Notifications
Switching between owned vehicles
Current Vehicle Information
Displays an overview of the vehicle, including:
Battery capacity
Estimated driving range
Vehicle status (parked or in motion)
Total mileage
NOTE
These details may vary depending on the vehicle model or market.
Remote Control (if available)
If supported, this feature allows quick access and control of certain vehicle settings, such as: Air conditioning control, door locking/unlocking...
NOTE
Features may differ based on the vehicle model or market.
Battery and Charging
The VinFast App provides battery and charging status to help you monitor and manage your vehicle efficiently.
To access Battery and Charging details: Tap Battery & Charging from the home page
Battery & Charging Page Displays:
Charging target
Battery level (%)
Charging status
Battery leasing information (if applicable)
Nearby charging stations and availability
To change the charging target (if available):
Tap Charging Level.
Use the slider to set a new target.
Tap Save.
Battery leasing (if available):
VinFast offers a battery leasing option for customers. This feature allows you to track leasing details.
Charging History:
Tap Charging History to view past charging sessions by date.
Each session includes:
Charging date & time
Charging cost
Driving Assistance (if available)
This feature is only applicable to vehicles equipped with advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS).
Vehicle Settings
Some features may not be available depending on your vehicle version and region.
Features include:
Software updates (if available)
Vehicle information
Virtual assistant (if available)
Driving data
Vehicle Software Updates
You will receive a notification when a new software update is available. Check notifications or go to Vehicle Software Updates for details.
Virtual Assistant (if available)
The virtual assistant allows you to control the vehicle using voice commands.
Open the Virtual Assistant section. Add a new command or select a suggested command.
Vehicle Information
Provides details related to your vehicle.
Driving statistic
Driving statistic includes:
Distance
Energy
Energy electricity
Services
Some vehicle support services may not be available, depending on your vehicle version and market.
Available services:
Service booking
Roadside assistance
Vehicle alert
Test drive
Service booking
The VinFast App allows easy scheduling of service appointments.
To book a service:
Tap Book Service in the Vehicle Services section.
Fill in the required information and follow the instructions.
A confirmation notification will appear in the app.
Your request details will be stored in the Notifications section.
Roadside Assistance
The VinFast App allows you to request roadside assistance directly from your mobile device.
To request roadside assistance
Tap Roadside Assistance in the Vehicle Services section.
Tap Create A Request.
Fill in the required information and follow the instructions.
A confirmation notification will be displayed in the app.
Vehicle Alerts
You can check for any vehicle warnings in the VinFast App. Even if someone else is driving the car, you will receive alerts about any detected issues.
Based on the type of warning, the app may suggest:
Booking a service appointment
Requesting roadside assistance
Referring to the user manual with a direct link
To check for vehicle alerts:
Tap Vehicle Alerts in the Vehicle Services section.
A list of current alerts will appear (if any).
Tap an alert for more details.
Follow the prompts to book a service, request roadside assistance, or view the relevant user manual section.
All actions related to vehicle alerts will be synced with your vehicle.
Test Drive
The app provides an interface for booking test drives for VinFast vehicles.
Notifications
Please note that app functionality may vary depending on your country, vehicle model, or app updates. The VinFast App may send notifications and messages at any time.
Notification Types:
Vehicle alerts
Transaction activities
Messages from VinFast
To access notifications:
From the Home Page, tap the notifications icon.  .
Use the search bar to find specific notifications or browse the list.
Filter notifications by type.
Switching Between Owned Vehicles
This feature allows users to switch between multiple owned vehicles and view their details.
To switch vehicles: Tap the switch icon in the top corner of the screen.  .
Maps
Maps overview
1
Search bar
2
Quick search
3
Find my car
4
Location tracking
5
Map view
Find locations
Search for your destination by entering an address in the search bar or selecting from quick search suggestions.
Find My Car
To locate your vehicle, tap the Find My Car button. The app will pinpoint its location and display key details about your car.
Map View
In addition to the default view, you can select additional map features such as:
Satellite view
Traffic conditions
Dark mode
Shopping
This section provides information about:
Your orders
Current VinFast vehicle models
Car accessories
You can easily track your order status, explore the latest VinFast models, and find suitable accessories for your vehicle.
Account
This section provides key features such as:
Promotional offers
Payments
Settings
Help & Support
My Vehicles
Payments
You can choose to pay via credit card or ATM card.
To add a payment card:
Go to Payment Methods.
Tap Add Card.
Select your card type.
Enter the required details.
Tap Save.
NOTE
You can add multiple cards and set a primary payment card.
To make a payment:
Tap Bill List.
Select an invoice to pay (Charging / Battery subscription).
Tap Pay and follow the instructions.
A confirmation notification will be sent after successful payment.
NOTE
If you have a pending invoice, a payment reminder will appear on the home screen.
Settings
Users can customize and access the following key functions:
Feature
Description
Setting
Customize language, measurement units, notifications
Driver Management
Transfer vehicle ownership, add secondary drivers
Account Information
Edit owner name and phone number
Password & Security
Reset password, delete account, login options
Help & Support
This section includes:
FAQs
Support Requests
About App
Owner Manual
Terms & Conditions

## Climate Control System

Climate Controls
The climate control system cools, heats, filters and dehumidifies the air in the passenger compartment. Generally, the system works most efficiently when the windows are closed.
Climate Control Overview
Below is an overall description of all the functions that can be equipped on the vehicle. Therefore, depending on the market and vehicle variant, the display of some functions may vary or may not be available on your vehicle.
Front Zone Controls
Air conditioner (AC) off/ on
Auto mode
Maximum air conditioning ON / OFF
Air Ionizer off/on (if available)
Air recirculation (Auto/Inside/Outside: Off), (Auto/Inside/Outside: On)
Defrost toggle ON/OFF
Temperature controls (Passenger zone)
Fan button (To open climate screen)
Temperature controls (Driver zone)
Air distribution control (Windscreen, face, foot: Off), (Windscreen, face, foot: On)
“Seats Off” button to turn off all heating/cooling seats.
Sync temperature of all zones off/on
Control heated steering wheel (if available)
Temperature controls (Driver zone)
Seat controls (Control cooling & heating level) (if available)
Temperature controls (Passenger zone)
Fan speed adjustment
To open Climate Control Menu:
Climate Control Menu can be accessed by any of the following methods:
Tap  Fan button  icon on the Climate Control Bar.
Cooling / Air-Conditioning
To turn on/off the Air Conditioning system:
Tap on the  A/C  button to turn the air conditioning On.
Tap on the  A/C  button again to switch Off air conditioning.
NOTE
Water may drip from underneath the vehicle when it is in cooling mode. Traces of water on the ground are normal and are not a sign of leakage or malfunction.
If no cooling is required, switch off the A/C cooling system to increase range efficiency.
Under certain conditions when the vehicle is charging, the A/C cooling performance may be reduced. For example, when using Fast Charging while in hot ambient conditions, the vehicle prioritizes the battery cooling, to ensure optimum lifetime performance of the battery.
Maximum Cooling
To turn on/off the Maximum Cooling:
Tap on  Max A/C  icon to activate maximum cooling mode.
Tap again to turn it Off.
Air Vents
Windscreen Defrost/Demist Vents
Front Side Windows Defrost/Demist Vents
Front Side Air Vent
Front Central Air Vent
Front Footwell Air Vent
Rear Air Central Vent
NOTE
The air distribution is adjusted by pressing the appropriate buttons on the touchscreen.
Adjustable Vents
Adjustable Air vents are provided on dashboard and rear side of the center console.
To adjust Air Vents:
Use the lever for changing the air flow direction (left/right/up/down) and for opening/closing of the Air vents.
NOTE
During the cooling process, at least one vent must be opened to prevent the evaporator from freezing due to lack of air movement.
The Climate Control can be switched ON only if the blower is ON and motor is running.
CAUTION
Do not place any objects on the slats of the ventilation holes.
Clear away any ice, snow, or leaves from the air inlets at the base of the windshield that could block the flow of air into the vehicle.
Air Temperature, Speed & Distribution
Temperature
The driver and passenger can adjust the cabin temperature to suit their individual comfort needs.
To adjust the cabin temperature:
To decrease the temperature, tap (>)
To increase the temperature, tap(<)
Use button   to adjust driver side area temperature.
Use button   to adjust passenger side area temperature.
NOTE
In cold conditions it will take few minutes for the heater to warm up and reach a desired temperatures.
Air Flow
To adjust the air flow following options are available:
To open Climate Control card, tap  Fan  icon  .
To change fan speed, tap or  Press  &  Swipe   .﻿
Alternatively,  Press  and  Hold  the fan icon then move the slider left OR right to adjust fan speed.
If the fan is switched  OFF  the Climate Control is also  Deactivated.
Air Distribution
To adjust Air Distribution throughout the cabin:
Automatic Operation
The  Climate Control System  controls the air speed, distribution, temperature and recirculation. In addition it also governs the operating temperature cycle of the air conditioning﻿ system. When  AUTO  mode is activated, the system operates automatically.
How to activate auto mode:
Open the Climate Control Drawer.
To activate auto mode, tap  AUTO .
NOTE
Changing the fan speed, blower direction, or selecting defrost mode, A/C, Max A/C while in  AUTO   mode  will cause the climate control system to change to  MANUAL mode .
In hot ambient conditions, recirculation may be automatically selected to increase the speed of cooling of the cabin and to reduce energy consumption.
For convenience and comfort the following is recommended:
Tap  AUTO.
For optimized air distribution, open all air vents.
Set temperature. Adjust the temperature as needed for best comfort.
Manual Operation
The driver can control and adjust all climate control settings manually.
To activate manual mode when auto mode is activated:
Manual mode is activated when any of the following settings are manually changed; fan speed, blower direction, Windshield mode, A/C, Max A/C.
The following settings can be controlled when the MANUAL mode is activated:
Function
State On / Off
Description
A/C
Turn A/C ON and OFF.
Max A/C
Turn Max A/C ON and OFF.
Recirculation
Tap to switch between different recirculation modes.
Air Flow Distribution
Tap to change air flow mode.
Temperature / Air Flow
Temperature
Swipe left/right to increase/decrease temperature.
Air Flow
Drag the slider left/right to increase/decrease air flow.
SYNC
Tap to sync driver and passenger settings.
Front Windscreen Defrost / Defog
The front windscreen and a portion of the front windows can be defrosted or defogged using this function.
To turn on the front windscreen defrost/defog﻿:
Open the Climate Control Drawer﻿.
Tap  Front Defrost/Defog .
The button will become illuminated   to indicate it is active﻿.
NOTE
In warm and very humid ambient air conditions, the windscreen may mist up from the outside, when cold air is directed at it. If windscreen mists up from outside, activate windscreen wiper and defrost.
CAUTION
Damage may occur to the windscreen and/or wipers if they are used when ice or snow is present. It is recommended to use the Defrost/Defog function or water over the windscreen to melt the ice.
An ice/snow scrapper can also be used to clean the windscreen. Be gentle in using the scrapper as not to damage the windscreen by scrapping the glass surface.
WARNING
Do not defog the windscreen using cold air distribution directed towards the windscreen, this may lead to fogging up of the windscreen and cause poor vision which can result in serious injuries or accident for the driver.
Cabin Filtration
The Climate Control System filters the incoming air to remove dust, pollen and contaminants﻿. For best performance, the Cabin Air Filter requires replacement within the specified maintenance interval. See >   Cabin Air Filter   for replacement instructions.
When driving through very dusty or polluted air, it is recommended to use the Recirculation function to reduce the amount of contaminants that enter the vehicle cabin. This, however will decrease the life of the Cabin Air Filter.
Air Ionizer
If equipped, the Air Ionizer is a feature that adds ions to the air to trap air contaminants. Harmful particles and germs in the air can be reduced by ionization. ﻿This helps to improve air quality for individuals in the passenger compartment and aids in Cabin Filtration.
To activate the Air Ionizer﻿:
Tap  Air Ionizer .
The feature will be activated﻿.
NOTE
Regular cleaning of the vehicle interior is recommended, as this will help maintain the Cabin Air Filter and Climate Control System.
Recirculation Mode
Recirculation mode circulates the AC air within the vehicle’s cabin.
The following options are available in recirculation mode:
Type of Mode
Icon
Description
Outside
When outside mode is enabled, fresh air will be drawn into the vehicle cabin from outside.
Inside
When recirculation mode is enabled, the existing cabin air inside the vehicle will be circulated and filtered.
Auto
When AUTO recirculation mode is enabled, recirculation mode is controlled automatically.
How to change recirculation mode:
Open the climate control drawer.
To switch modes, tap  Recirculation  button﻿.
NOTE
Air Recirculation mode will turn off automatically after a set period of time.
Keep the exterior air intake vents clean at all times, to ensure optimal performance of the climate control system.
Switch off the air recirculation mode when it is no longer required.
WARNING
If Recirculation Mode is on and cooling is off this can cause air humidity to increase in the vehicle cabin, causing the windows to fog up which can be dangerous while driving.
CAUTION
Do not keep Recirculation mode on in normal conditions. The quality of air inside the cabin can deteriorate over time due to the lack of fresh air.
Climate Control System Maintenance
Air Intake
The exterior air intake vents located in front of the windshield must be kept clean to allow air flow into the Climate Control system. Remove leaves, debris, dirt or snow.
Passenger compartment air filter maintenance:
The cabin air particle filter removes pollen, dust and soot particles from the air inside the vehicle. The filter should be replaced as part of routine maintenance. Refer to the Vehicle Maintenance Schedule. See >   Maintenance Schedule > Maintenance Schedule Overview  .
For instructions on how to replace the cabin air filter,  See > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts > Cabin Air Filter.
NOTE
If the vehicle is driven in highly polluted or dusty conditions, it is recommended to inspect and replace the filter more often.
Regular operation of the AC System:
The Air Conditioning (AC) needs to be used for a few minutes each month, regardless of the weather and time of the year. This is to ensure the climate control system remains lubricated within.
Servicing of the Climate Control System:
In order to obtain the best performance from the Climate Control System, it must be maintained correctly. Refer to the Vehicle Maintenance Schedule.
See >   Maintenance Schedule > Maintenance Schedule Overview  .
The maintenance includes the following:
Heating and Cooling performance check.
Leak inspection.
Replacement of the refrigerant and pressure testing, if required.
Cleaning of the condenser and evaporator drain.
CAUTION
The refrigerant must be discharged from the system by a qualified person before any connection is disconnected.
Use only the approved refrigerant and air-conditioning compressor oil. Using non approved materials may lead to permanent damage to the vehicle.
WARNING
Servicing must be completed by a suitably certified and qualified professional. The refrigerant is toxic and must be contained. Failure follow the above may lead to serious injury or death.
Rear Demist
The rear windscreen and a portion of the rear windows can be demisted or defogged using Rear Demist function.
To turn on the rear windscreen demister:
Tap on the  Rear demister  icon on the touchscreen.﻿
The button will become illuminate   to indicate it is active﻿.
NOTE
The rear demister will automatically turn OFF.

## Settings

Settings Overview
The Settings App allows control and adjustment of many of the Infotainment and Vehicle features and functions. See below a summary of settings menus available:
Device Settings
Manage device connection settings
Wi-Fi
Connect and manage Wi-Fi and Hotspot Settings
Voice assistant (if available)
Adjust Voice Assistant preferences
Sound
Adjust sound preferences and volumes
Theme
Adjust Wallpaper, Trip and Heads-up display Settings
Security Settings
Adjust Geo-Fence, Time-Fence, Valet mode and Theft alert Settings
Vehicle Settings
Manage Seat, Mirrors, Doors, Wipers and Wireless Charging Settings
Light Settings
Adjust Vehicle Exterior, Interior and Ambient Lighting Settings
General Settings
Adjust Date & Time, Language and Unit Settings
About
Know your software version, Factory Reset and Adjust eSim settings
To access the Settings App:
From Home page
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Tap  Settings   .
Greater detail on each setting category can be found later in this section.
Search Settings
Use the search feature to quickly navigate to a desired settings page by typing a keyword.
To search for a setting:
Tap  Search    icon, from the Settings App.
Enter Name of Setting in the search field.
Tap  Search .
Vehicle Settings
Vehicle Settings allows the following settings related to vehicle functionality to be adjusted:
Seat
Side Mirrors
Doors
Wipers
Wireless Charging
Extension (if available)
To access Vehicle Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment Screen.
Tap  Settings     > Vehicle Settings   .
Seat
Easy Access : When enabled the driver’s seat and steering wheel will be adjusted to give more space for entry/exit of the vehicle when in the park position and driver’s seatbelt is unfastened.
Child Presence Detection (if available):  Alerts if a child is left behind in the vehicle.
Rear Seat Belt Chime (if available):  Enable/Disable an audible reminder for rear passengers to fasten their seat belts.
Warning levels of Child Presence Detection
Level 1
If the system detects a child in any seat of the vehicle while all doors are closed, system continuously displays a warning message on the infotainment screen, flashes the hazard lights for 15 seconds, and sends a notification via the VinFast App to alert the owner.
The warning message on the infotainment screen indicates that there is a child in the vehicle and displays the current cabin temperature.
Level 2
The system transitions to Level 2 warning after one minute of Level 1 warning. It continues to display the warning message on the infotainment screen, sounds the horn for 2 times, flashes the hazard lights for 15 seconds and repeats hazard lights cycle every minute, activates the HVAC system and dome light to maintain a comfortable cabin environment.
NOTE
After each vehicle start (ignition ON), the CPD shall be automatically enabled.
Side Mirrors
Auto Fold : Automatically fold side mirrors when doors are locked.
Auto Tilt on Reverse : Automatically tilt the side mirrors downward when the vehicle is placed in reverse (R) to assist in parking.
Doors
Liftgate Foot-Kick Sensor -  Enables automatic opening of the liftgate by foot movement.
Door Unlock When Vehicle Unlock -  Select Driver Doors to be unlocked when the Unlock button is pressed on the key fob or VinFast app (if available).
Door Unlock When Parked -  Enables automatic doors unlocking when the vehicle is in Park (P).
Walk-Away Lock (if available) -  Automatically locks the door when driver walks away from the vehicle with key fob.
Lock/Unlock Feedback -  Select feedback type when vehicle is locked / unlocked (Off / Lights / Horn / Both).
Auto close Windows (if available) - The vehicle will automatically close the windows when the door is locked.
Wipers
Auto Rear Wiper -  When required, the rear wipers will be activated automatically.
Wiper Service Mode  - Set the windshield wipers in the service position to change the wiper blades. This feature is only available before stepping on Brake pedal for the first time you get in the vehicle.
Wireless Charging (if available)
Wireless Charging -  Enable/Disable the wireless charging pads.
Extension (if available)
Trip Button Customization:  Customize the trip button on the left stalk to quickly access your preferred functions -  Trip/Drive Mode/Regen Level...  - You can press the trip button to quickly switch between Trip/Drive modes/Regen Level...
Device Settings
Device Settings allows the management of connections between the vehicle and portable media devices such as mobile phones. Device Connect allows the vehicle to:
Search for and pair new phone or media devices
Switch between connected devices
Disconnect or delete existing devices
Manage connection settings for individual devices
To access Device Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Tap  Settings     > Device Settings .
To connect a device:
Go to Bluetooth settings on your device and select “VinFast_VF 8”.
Connect via USB port - See >   USB Ports and Power Outlets  .
From Device Connect, select an available device from the list.
When connecting a Bluetooth device for the first time the user will be asked to confirm the  Pass Key  between the device and Infotainment screen. Please check the device for Popups.
NOTE
“VinFast_VF 8” is the default name of the vehicle. To change it,
See >   Setting > About  .
To pair a device via Bluetooth, the vehicle should be stationary or be moving at a speed of less than 3 km/h (1.8 mph).
Device List Overview
Once connected a device will then be shown in the Device List.
The Device List will also show:
Other available devices to connect
Previously connected devices
Detail of the current connection type
Advanced Settings Overview
Advanced settings allows the adjustment the following settings:
Do Not Disturb  - Touch to toggle this feature ON/OFF and set a predefined or custom reply message DND default off.
Android Auto  - Touch to toggle this feature ON/OFF for all connected Android devices Android auto default on.
SMS Notification  - Touch to toggle this feature ON/OFF for message purpose New message notification default on.
Pre-shared Key for Wireless Connection  - Touch to reset the key.
Wi-Fi
Use Wi-Fi settings to manage Wi-Fi connections between the vehicle and portable media devices or other available networks.
To access Wi-Fi Settings﻿:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.﻿
Tap  Settings     > Wi-Fi Settings .
To turn Wi-Fi ON/OFF:
Toggle Wi-Fi  ON  or  OFF .
To connect to a Wi-Fi network:
Select the available network from the list.
Enter network  Password  (if required).
After a successful connection is established, the connected network will be shown in the Connected list.
To disconnect/forget a Wi-Fi network:
Tap  Three dot    icon.
Tap  Disconnect/Forget.
To connect to a hidden Wi-Fi network:
Tap  Hidden Network .
Select  Security  type.
Enter Network name and Password (if required).
Tap  Connect .
NOTE
Move the device closer to the Infotainment screen if a known Wi-Fi network does not appear in the list.
Sound
Sound settings allows the adjustment of the following settings:
Volume
Equalizer
Focus
To access the Sound Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Settings    >  Sound Settings .
Volume
Adjust the volume by using the slider controls.
To reset volumes
The  Reset  soft key will set all volume settings to the default value of 15.
Tap on Reset buttun.
Volume presets can also be adjusted by using the rotary dial while any of the above functions audio output is active. For example, to adjust the Voice Assistant volume adjust the volume rotary dial while Voice Assistant is speaking.
WARNING
Always pay attention to road and traffic conditions when driving. To minimize driver distraction and ensure the safety of vehicle occupants as well as other road users, avoid using the touchscreen to adjust settings while the vehicle is in motion.
NOTE
Feedback tones are automatically activated by the system to provide feedback to the user when they press buttons or use sliders to adjust sound.
The above settings are absolute values and not linked to the adjusted infotainment system volume.
The minimum volume of In-call, Start-up limit, Voice Control, Parking is 6.
The volume of the current playing source will be temporarily muted when an incoming phone call is received or a navigation direction is given.
Equalizer
Touch Equalizer to individually adjust equalizer frequency levels or choose from a predefined sound profiles.
NOTE
If the user selects a predefined sound profile, and then adjust one of 5 bands, equalizer mode auto switches to custom mode.
Focus
Adjust speaker position area through this option.
The user can only adjust the position in selected zones.
Change the adjustment through zone area depends on sound quality.
General Settings
Use General Settings to manage the following:
Region
Language
Date and Time
Units of Measurement
To access General Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Settings     > General Settings .
Region
Use Region settings to select the region in which you are located.
Date and Time
Use Date and Time Settings to adjust the following:
Auto date/time
Toggle the Auto date/time feature
Current date/time
Current Date and Time (manually editable if Auto Date/Time is OFF)
Auto time zone
Toggle the Auto Time Zone feature
Time zone
Current Time Zone (manually editable if Auto Time Zone is OFF).
Time format
Select preferred Time Format - 12h/24h
Date format
Select preferred Date Format from the drop - down list
NOTE
When Auto Date/Time is enabled, the clock and date will update automatically depending on the region.
Language
Use Language setting to change the system language.
Units of Measurement
This page enables you to adjust the following:
Temperature - °C / °F
Tire Pressure - Bar / kPa / PSI
Battery - Distance (km / mile)/ %
About
About page displays the following information about the Vehicle:
Model Number
Vehicle Color
Infotainment System Software Version
Vin Number
Vehicle Odometer Reading (ODO﻿)
Next service due date of the vehicle
Extended warranty date
To access About page
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Tap  Settings     > About .
To change the Vehicle Name:
Tap  Edit    icon.
Enter preferred vehicle name in the text field.
Tap  Change .
NOTE
A maximum of 15 characters is allowed when changing the vehicle name.
Firmware
Firmware updates are necessary software update. The vehicle firmware can be updated directly inside vehicle without the need to visit a service center.
The firmware update can be downloaded either via Wi-Fi or Cellular network data.
Firmware update download
Firmware updates will get automatically downloaded when they become available. The update will get downloaded in the background.
Automatic download via Wi-Fi : The vehicle will automatically download updates over Wi-Fi when connected to a Wi-Fi network.
Automatic download via cellular data : The car will switch to cellular data to download updates if Wi-Fi is not available. Automatic download can be Enabled/Disabled using toggle. By default this setting is Disabled.
For more information, see > Connected Services >   Remote Software Update  .
NOTE
Downloading and installing a firmware update may take some time.
CAUTION
Firmware updates may contain new safety, security or general vehicle feature improvements that can enhance the overall vehicle operation.
Firmware updates may erase data or settings that are saved in the vehicle, such as saved navigation destinations or pre-set radio stations.
WARNING
Never use the vehicle while Firmware installation is in progress.
Always perform the Firmware installations when the vehicle is stationary. This can lead to distraction which increases the risk of an accident.
eSIM
The data connection for Connected Infotainment services can be made through an embedded SIM card (eSIM card) installed in the vehicle.
For more information, see > Settings >   eSIM Settings  .
Geofencing and Timefencing
Geo-fencing
If available, Geo-fencing creates a virtual geographic boundary around an area by means of GPS technology, the owner will receive a notification on Infotainment screen when the vehicle moves out of the geo-fence area.
Geo-fencing settings are available for the Primary Driver profiles only. Other user profiles can only view if a Geo-fence is active but cannot modify or remove.
This feature is helpful if somebody else is allowed to drive the vehicle and the owner wants to remind them that an agreed driving distance has been exceeded.
Exiting Geo-fence
Upon exiting a Geo-fence, a notification will appear on the screen as per settings.
Time-fencing
If available, Time-fencing a time-period can be set beyond which if a vehicle is driven a notification is sent by the Infotainment system.
Time-fencing settings are available for the primary driver profiles only. Other user profiles can only view if a Time-fence is active but cannot modify or remove.
This feature is helpful if somebody else is allowed to drive the vehicle and the owner wishes to remind them that an agreed time-period has been exceeded.
Moving beyond a Time-fence
Upon moving beyond a Time-fence, a notification will appear on the Infotainment screen.
NOTE
A maximum 10 Time-fences can be created.
the Geo-fences & Time-fences can also be created/modified/deleted from the VinFast App (see VinFast app on your phone for more details).
eSIM
The eSIM App provides information related to the current status of Infotainment systems cellular connection. It also provides a QR code to easily facilitate the purchase of additional data.
To access eSIM settings:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Settings     > About
Tap on the  eSIM  tab.
Overview
The following information may be available:
Signal Strength
MNO (Mobile Network Operator)
Remaining Voice Package Details (Talk Time)
Free Package Details (Data)
Basic Package
Premium Package
Top-up Data Package Details
QR Code
EID (Embedded Identity Document)
IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity)
ICCID (Integrated Circuit Card Identifier)
Reset Button
To reset the network access device:
Tap on the  Reset  button.
To purchase additional data:
Scan the QR code shown on the screen.
Open the LTE data purchasing page via your mobile, follow the instructions on the screen.
After data is purchased details will be updated on the eSIM page.
Voice Assistant
If available, to access Voice Assistant Settings:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Settings    >  Voice Assistant Settings   .
Voice Assistant Settings Overview:
Wake up word  - Enables recognition of word “Hey VinFast” to activate the voice assistant.
Voice Assistant welcome  - Enables voice assistant welcome when starting the vehicle.
Follow up mode  - Enables the feature to ask follow-up questions without repeating “Hey VinFast”.
Continued conversation time  - Set continued conversation time by using the slider.
Assistant Language  - Change voice assistant language.
Voice Accent  - Change voice accent.
Voice Assistant Mode  - Change voice assistant mode.
Factory Reset (if available)
The Factory Reset function allows users to restore the vehicle system to its original state and delete all stored personal data. This feature is provided through the central infotainment display and can only be performed by the Primary profile.
To perform a factory reset:
On the Profile Management (All Profiles) screen, tap the three-dot icon in the top-right corner to open options.
Select “Factory Reset”.
Confirm and continue.
Enter the PIN code to start the reset process.
NOTE
Once the process is complete, the fullscreen loading screen will be dismissed and the system will return to the normal MHU interface. If the factory reset is successful, the system will proceed to the initial setup (first-time onboarding). If it fails, the Primary profile will remain and a message “Factory reset failed” will be displayed.
The gear cannot be shifted during the installation process.
The vehicle will not perform a factory reset if:
The gear is not in Park (P).
The handbrake is not applied.
The vehicle has not been started.
The low-voltage battery is below 20%.
The low-voltage battery’s voltage is below 11.5V.
An emergency call is in progress.
Awaiting an emergency call back.

## Navigation (HNAV)

Navigation Overview (HNAV)
Use Navigation App to navigate to a selected destination. Route information is displayed on the Infotainment screen and Head Up Display (if equipped).
To open Navigation App:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap Maps.
OR
Tap  Navigation widget  on the Home Screen.
Navigation Page Overview
Search for a Destination
Point Of Interest
Map layer
Isoline routing
Traffic incident
Navigation Settings
Navigation Safety
Before using the Navigation System carefully read and understand the following warning.
WARNING
Be aware of all local traffic laws and road characteristics of your region. It is always your responsibility to determine the safety of the route being suggested. Drive the vehicle appropriately according to current road and environmental conditions.
Always follow road traffic rules and regulations even when driving with the assistance of the Navigation System. The Navigation system is not a substitute for safe driving.
One-box Search
The user can search for a destination by inputting general categories and terms, specific place names or geocoordinates into the search bar.
To search for a destination:
Tap on  Search  bar    .
Enter Name of the destination.
Tap on  Search.
NOTE
When user starts typing some of the common categories such as Restaurants, Charging, Parking, the map will suggest a shortcut to the category search.
WARNING
Do not use Search feature while vehicle is in motion, as it can cause distraction and lead to accidents causing serious injuries or death.
Search by Category
Destinations can be searched by category.
To search by Category/Point Of Interest (POI):
Tap  Search    icon.
Select desired  Category  from the available options.
Place Detail Card
The Place Detail Card will be displayed on the Infotainment screen after selecting a destination. The Place Detail Card shows detailed information about the selected destination including (when available).
NOTE
You can also make a call by tapping on phone number displayed on the Place Detail Card.
Spatial Filters
The spatial filters are available for both category search and free text search when guidance is active. The filters are shown as buttons on top of the search results list.
After selecting a destination, user can continue to search for an additional destination with spatial filters: Along the route, At destination and Nearby.
Recent destinations
When user accesses the Search bar, it automatically displays a list of recent search queries and Point of Interest (POI) for easier selection.
The recent destination items are clickable and provide a shortcut directly to the place detail card, where the user can immediately start navigation, request route alternatives to the location or add the location as an additional waypoint to an already existing route. Users can clear the entire search history and delete items from the search history list.
Saved Places
Places can be saved as Favorites, Home or Work.
To save a Place:
Tap  Save    icon on the Place Detail Card to save a place as Favorite.
Select an option from the list to save/set a place as  Favorite/Home/ Work.
To remove Saved Places:
Tap  Saved    icon on the Place Detail Card
Tap  Remove from favorites
NOTE
Only one place can be saved as Home/Work. Also, same place cannot be saved in both Home and Work category, at the same time.
The Navigation App requires a cellular connection for some functionality. Local carrier fees will apply.
Destination entry from the map
User can select any point on the map, including POIs, and access further available information about a given location including address and geocoordinates, as well nearby POIs.
When in exploration mode, the opened location can be set as a destination. When in guidance mode, the opened location can either be set as an additional waypoint or a new destination.
To see more information about a place, search for available routes, or start guidance, tap on a place marker.
NOTE
When user selects a point on the map, outside the road network or POI locations, the address for that location will be based on the closest road network.
Offline map
Users are able to download the map data to use when there is no connection to the internet.
To use offline map:
Go to  Settings > Maps > Offline maps
Select a country name to download offline map for that country
NOTE
It is recommended that users download their maps before embarking on a guided route.
When offline, map does not present POI imagery or ratings information.
Offline search is significantly slower than online search.
Traffic
Online traffic is supported and traffic information is displayed on the map.
Traffic flows on the map
Traffic flow is displayed on the map for different road classes depending on the zoom level. Flow for road closures and road works are shown on the map depending on the zoom level.
Traffic on route
The traffic colors on the route is synchronizes with the traffic as seen on the map.
This feature combines the live traffic data with the traffic info that is already contained within the routing response for the rest of the route. The routing response contains some future projections using historic traffic patterns.
Traffic incidents on the map
Traffic incidents are displayed in the map viewport depending on the zoom level. Icons for traffic incidents are rendered as map markers as an overlay to the traffic flow in the 2D and 3D map views. Traffic incidents are tappable and enlarge when selected by user. Traffic incident details are provided on an incident details card when a user taps on them within the application UI, including:
Title
Traffic event text (description) with all supported languages
End time, available for some types of traffic incidents
List view of traffic incidents
Users can open the list view of traffic incidents via a dedicated button in the application UI.
In the exploration view, traffic incidents within a radius around the current vehicle position are shown. Users can select and see more information about a given incident by tapping on the incident in the list.
When the traffic list feature is opened during an active guidance session, users can modify the spatial filter to also see traffic incidents along the route or around the current car position.
In the traffic incident detail card, users can see the estimated end date for traffic disruption for two types of incidents: road closures and road construction.
Traffic incident alert
Users can turn on and off notifications for traffic incidents from the settings.
To turn on/off traffic incident alert:
Go to  Settings > Road alerts > Traffic incidents
Toggle of  Show notifications  to turn on/off.
Alerts are displayed and sounded 1000 meters before the incident locations. These alerts are visible for 6 seconds unless a user taps on the details or dismisses the alert. Once the time has elapsed, the notification disappears.
NOTE
Traffic incidents feature is OFF by default.
This feature works online only.
Routing
Turn-by-turn, maneuver-based visual and voice guidance instructions are provided to allow the driver to easily follow the planned route.
Visual Guidance
Drivers see the active route along with the traffic information, points of interest, incidents, and other relevant information.
The upcoming maneuver is always displayed in the Turn-By-Turn (TBT) widget during navigation. The next maneuver also is displayed, when it follows soon after the upcoming maneuver (500m).
The following maneuver display is replaced by Lane Guidance instructions where applicable.
Voice Guidance (If available)
Upcoming maneuver is verbally announced with a street name according to the chosen languages.
To unmute/mute voice guidance:
Go to  Settings > Audio > Audio Guidance
Select  Audio guidance  to turn on Audio Guidance
OR
Select  No audio guidance  to turn off Audio Guidance.
Dynamic rerouting
When in routing or guidance mode, the fastest route can be suggested to the driver, if possible.
If the user selected the shortest possible route, other routes will not be suggested.
If there are no alternatives and the route overview is open, the alternate routes are not shown. If there are some options available,up to two alternatives in the route overview card will be displayed and rendered on map. If the route overview card is closed, for example during guidance, drivers only see the alternatives that are faster than the currently active route.
For routes with auto-added chargers, alternatives that have the same or a longer travel time during guidance are filtered out. The chargers are shown on the routes as white dots.
To turn on alternate route alerts:
Go to  Settings > Route options
Toggle the  Get alerts for alternate routes  on
NOTE
Routing alternatives work online and offline.
The offline option does not have the most current data (such as traffic flows or incidents), so the estimated time arrival is calculated based on distance and average road conditions.
A notification in guidance mode is displayed when there is a faster route available. After a user accepts the alternative, the application automatically updates the route.
Lane Assistance with Voice Instructions
Users see the upcoming lanes (lane markings and lane dividers) in the Turn-by-turn card. The optimal lane to take is highlighted for the user during guidance to their destination. An audible lane assistance based on the lane information during guidance to the destination is provided to the user with announcement timing aligned to functional road classes.﻿﻿
Color-coded Estimated Time of Arrival (ETA)
The estimated time of arrival (ETA) is color coded based on live traffic. When a driver starts guidance to any location, the ETA color immediately reflects the current traffic level on the entirety of a chosen route, or a route saved to the commute assistant.
ETA color codes reflect how heavy the traffic is at the current time at any point of the route. The meaning of colors are defined as follows:
Green : no traffic on the route.
Yellow : Medium traffic on the route.
Red : Heaviest traffic levels.
NOTE
This feature works online. The ETA traffic level color updates after each route refresh.
Speed Alerts (if available)
During guidance and nonguidance, the application displays the current travel speed and the legally allowed speed limit information with their given units (kmph or mph) for the current road.
Speed limit signage is displayed where the information is available according to locally prevailing standards. When the information is not available, the signage is shown as generic signs.
Driver is warned visually and audibly when exceeding the current speed limit. Driver can set a threshold in 5 kmph/3 mph steps above the legal speed limit above which warnings are issued.
NOTE
Speed limit information and warnings are switched ON by default.
This feature works online and offline, since vehicle speed data does not depend on the network availability.
Safety Alerts (if available)
Safety cameras are divided into categories such as speed cameras and red-light cameras.
To turn on/off safety cameras display on the map:
Go to  Settings > Navigation: Speed > Safety Alerts
Toggle the  Show on map  on/off
To turn on/off safety cameras alerts:
Go to  Settings > Speed > Safety Alerts
Toggle the  Alert when approaching  on/off
To turn on/off safety cameras sound alerts:
Go to  Settings > Speed > Safety Alerts
Toggle the  Sound alert in vicinity  on/off
When active, the safety cameras alerts are announced during guidance with a first warning 500 meters before the position of the safety cam when driving below 80 km/h, and 800 meters before the safety camera when driving above 80 km/h. A pulsating camera icon highlights the relevant camera on the map. A final warning is provided 100 meters before the actual camera position.
Upcoming safety cameras are announced to the driver as an audio prompt. In the exploration view (guidance switched off), all cameras are displayed on the map when the vehicle is idle (below 5 km/h). When the vehicle is moving (speed is 5 km/h or more), the number of speed cameras displayed on the map depends on the chosen zoom level and the current vehicle position to avoid a cluttered map experience.
The driving direction affected by the speed camera will be highlighted with an arrow emerging from the safety camera it is in proximity of the current vehicle position, and an audio alert will be provided analogously to the implementation in the guidance context.
School Zones
A school zone refers to an area on a street near a school or near a crosswalk leading to a school that may have younger pedestrians present. School zones generally have a reduced speed limit during certain hours.
When a driver approaches a school zone, a series of audible pings will be sounded as a warning and a warning icon on the screen will be displayed with a distance countdown in the selected measurement units. When entering and leaving the school zone, the map announces and displays the school zone icon on the screen.
To enable this feature, select Settings > Navigation: Road alerts and enable School zone alerts. Times when to display the alert are configurable, so a different time can be set for every day of the week (either by users or OEMs).
To enable/disable school zone alerts display
Go to  Settings > Navigation > Road alerts > School zone alerts
Toggle the  Show alerts for school zones  on/off
To enable/disable school zone alerts sound:
Go to  Settings > Navigation > Road alerts > School zone alerts
Toggle the  Hear alerts for school zones  on/off
NOTE
This feature works online and offline.
This feature is location-based and only available in the US and Canada.
Intersection Map Display (ISM)
When vehicle approaches an intersection and navigation is active, the map displays a 2D visual representation showing the relevant maneuver. A distance bar provides a visual indication of the distance and time remaining to the maneuver point.
When in range of the intersection, the current vehicle location appears in the ISM widget.
To enable/disable intersection view
Go to  Settings > Navigation > Guidance > Intersection view
Toggle the  Show junction view  on/off
Junction View
When a vehicle approaches a junction, the map displays a 2D generic visual representation of a junction view in a widget under the next maneuver card. The widget shows all the lanes in the direction of travel and marks the lanes that are recommended for continuing along the selected route with an arrow.
The 2D junction view safely and precisely guides drivers to the lane they need to select with all the most necessary information being highlighted. The information is displayed in a widget that pictures how the lanes divide or merge and which ones to choose to stay on the selected route to allow drivers to prepare in time even before they enter the junction.
To enable/disable junction view:
Go to  Settings > Navigation > Guidance > Junction view
Toggle the  Show junction view  on/off
NOTE
Generally, this feature works online. However, if user has downloaded a map for the relevant region, then the junction view is available offline as well. If there is no junction view data or if the guidance is in offline mode, the map always fall back to the standard intersection map display (ISM).
This feature is OFF by default.
Parking Approach Mode
When approaching the final destination, user will be notified with parking opportunities.
The map first displays the single, most relevant parking opportunity with an option to navigate there easily. Driver can also search for parking alternatives by tapping on the alternatives button. Once driver selects a parking place, the map begins guidance to the parking place without discarding the original destination. A dotted line on the map from the chosen parking POI to the destination visualizes the pedestrian route the driver can follow. .
To enable/disable parking approach mode:
Go to  Settings > Navigation > Parking > Parking guidance
Toggle the  Suggest parking when close to destination  on/off
NOTE
The parking approach mode only offers static parking information including parking address, opening hours, and telephone number.
Navigation Guidance View
Navigation Guidance View and turn by turn navigation information is displayed on the Infotainment screen once a navigation route is selected. If another native App is opened, the turn by turn navigation information is displayed on Head Up Display (if equipped).
Guidance Card
Add a stop
Arrival time, Battery level
End Route
To add a stop in the route:
Tap  Add stop   .
Select a stop.
To remove a stop:
Tap  Remove Stop .
EV Features
The EV features are well integrated into the overall guidance experience and can make use of charge levels and other (EV) specific parameters of the vehicle. Most EV features are available only when the vehicle is online.
Charging Stations with Dynamic In﻿formation
You can find and add a charging station as a destination using Destination Search.﻿ See  > Navigation > Destination Search.
The map offers spatial filters to search for EV POIs when guidance is active: around the current car position, at the destination, along the route.
Users are shown the EV POI icons based on three states (where is data available and shared by charge point operator):
Charge port is available.
No charge port is available (including “broken” and “in maintenance”)
Only static data is available/status unknown
Availability information for charging stations is also shown to the user within the search results list (where data is available).
Once a user selects an EV charging station from the results list by clicking on the map marker, the map displays more granular data including availability, charging speeds, charge cards, and available plug type ports.
User can sort EV charging stations based on availability and distance information.
User can filter EV POI category search results by charge speed and charging point operator.
To set a charging speed preference:
Go to EV Charging > Charging Speed .
Select Any/Slow/Fast/Super fast only
To select plug types preference:
Go to EV Charging > Connector Type
Toggle on/off CS1/CS2/Tesla/CHAdeMO/Type1/Type2
To select charging setup time:
Go to EV Charging > Comfort zone > Setup time
Select 2 minutes/ 5 minutes/ 10 minutes
NOTE
The charging setup time refers to the duration spent after arriving at a charging station but before the actual charging begins.
The setup time is considered in the overall calculation of charging time at a station to ensure accurate route planning and energy management for electric vehicles.
Charge Cards (if available)
The supported eMobility Service Providers (eMSP) is displayed. When drivers have a charge card, they want to see EV charging points appropriate for that particular card and to have routing and guidance prioritize charging points that have the selected charging cards.
The charge point search result list and details card include the information on whether a charging point supports a charge card in addition to the other options. Users can add and remove charging cards.
To select preferred charge card:
Go to  EV Charging > Charging Cards > Add cards .
Add/remove your EV charging cards
NOTE
When in routing or guidance mode, the selected charging cards is prioritised whenever possible. The place details card for a charging station indicates whether the charging point accepts the selected card.
eMSP charging card logo
The eMSP charging card logo is displayed in the charging card settings, near the charge point marker on the map during guidance and routing, and in search results, allowing drivers to recognize preferred service providers.
Apart from the current availability status of charging stations (green for available, red for occupied, and grey for those lacking data), drivers can also see at a glance which charging cards are accepted.
NOTE
This feature works online and offline ; however, the offline option might not have the most current data.
Isoline routing
The navigation offers a dedicated map view button to access the range map view.
The remaining range on map is presented to the user as a polygon on the map depicting how far they can travel from the current car position considering current State of Charge (SoC) of the vehicle’s battery.
The range map shows the user-defined comfort zone from the application settings in a different color.
Multi-stop Route Planning
When planning a route while driving an EV, the navigation automatically suggests automatically adding charging points, according to the SoC and charge point preferences set by the user.
When the navigation identifies the destination cannot be reached with the current battery SoC, it asks the user if it should take over charge planning.
Users can access the route preference via the route plan and switch multi-stop routing on or off at any point in a journey. Handover between both modes is seamless and the route is recalculated after a setting adjustment.
A multi-stop route is calculated based on the current SoC of the vehicle’s battery and the vehicle-specific consumption model.
With a multi-stop route is calculated, the charging point preferences set by the user, such as charging speed, are taken into account. If preferred charge cards are set, the navigation prioritizes charging points that accept the chosen charge cards, whenever possible on the route.
Low Battery Alert
Drivers receive a low battery alert when SOC of vehicle is below 20%
The low battery alert initially shows the user the nearest charging station to the Current Car Position (CCP).
Users can choose to drive to the nearest charging station or look for additional charging stations around the current car position.
To turn on/off low power alert:
Go to  EV Charging > Range Support
Toggle on/off  Low power alert
Auto-added Charge Points
In multi-stop route planning mode, charging stops are added to the route automatically by the routing service, if the driver does not opt out of this option.
The user-defined minimum charge expectation (“comfort zone”) when reaching a destination, waypoint, or a charge stop as defined by the user in the navigation settings is also taken into account.
The user-defined maximum level of charging at a charging point is also included in the route calculation.
The user is shown the route in the HMI with information such as the number of charging stops, charging time, expected charge at arrival, and charge level to be reached at the charging stop, and the predicted energy consumption for the given route(s).
During guidance, the Dynamic Route Guidance (DRG) feature also displays route alternatives with charging time differences among the different routes presented.
If no charging station can be found in multi-stop routing, users are shown the range on the route instead.
To turn on/off low power alert:
Go to  Settings > Route options > Routing
Toggle on/off  Add Charging Stops
NOTE
This feature works online only.
This feature is ON by default.
When the auto-add toggle is switched off, the charging points are removed from the route.
If there is enough battery to reach the set destination, no charging stations are added to the route.
If the auto-add charging option is deactivated; for example, by changing the route options, all automatically added charging points are also removed.
If auto-add charging is activated, the manually added charging stations are removed.
When approaching an auto-added charger at the end of a journey (last charge point within a 2 kilometer radius around a set destination) before arriving at destination, drivers have the option to deactivate auto-added charging and to ignore the last charge stop on their route.
Manual Charge Stop Planning
When the auto-add charging stops feature is deactivated, the navigation still allows the driver to see the battery’s SoC along the route with regard to the set comfort zone, and see how far the vehicle can be driven with the current battery level.
When in the manual EV routing mode, the navigation recognizes manually added charging points and updates the route range accordingly.
When driving, drivers may have a preference for specific charging points.
When a charge stop is added manually, the navigation internally recognizes it as a charge stop. When multi-stop routing is deactivated, the navigation assumes that the vehicle is always charged to the level defined in the comfort zone settings.
The EV range information is automatically updated and presented to the driver when the charging stop has been added to the route. The comfort zone is displayed on the route during route planning and during the route overview.
The reachable distance is visible on the map in the standard route color (blue). The part of the route that is outside of the range of the EV is marked in red.
The navigation recommends the charge level needed to complete the route (with the comfort zone percentage taken into account) as it does for all charge points.
To add a manual charging point, search for charging points either along the route or by using the search box.
In the details card of the charging point, select  Add stop  to add it to the route. the navigation automatically recognizes the charging stop and recalculates the route with regard to the battery level.
NOTE
Manual charge stop planning only works when auto-add charging stops feature is deactivated.
Map & Display
2D/3D/Satellite map views
The navigation supports a 3D-map view and a rich set of visualizations on the map, including a set of automotive-grade buttons, which enable users to easily configure their preferred map view.
Default map view shows the current position of the user according to the vehicle location.
Satellite and default map view:
The navigation provides a default map view and a satellite view with a street network and map Point of Interest (POI) information overlay..
NOTE
Any map layer type can be used in both guidance and non-guidance scenarios.
Map layer
The following map layer choices are supported by the navigation:
Default geographic map view.
Satellite map.
POI layers
Points of interest (POIs) are displayed as clickable icons on the map.
To select Point of Interest categories:
Go to  Settings > Maps > Map display > Places on map
Select POI categories to show on map
NOTE
The selected POI category groups persist in guidance and non-guidance scenarios.
3D Buildings
3D landmarks (where available) are rendered with realistic full-color textures.
To select 3D appearance:
Go to  Settings > Navigation > Guidance > Buildings and Landmarks
Select  Show buildings and landmarks 3D/ Show only landmarks/ Show none.
Compass
You can find and add a charging station as a destination using Destination Search.﻿ See > Navigation > Destination Search.
Smart caching & streaming
Map streaming with smart caching:
The navigation automatically downloads and caches map tile bundles from backend based on usage such as the current car position, route request, or map panning by a user. Route-related map data is pre-cached within a corridor around the route with a radius of 10km.
Catalog map download:
Catalog map download enables users to download complete country maps Over The Air (OTA). While the map downloads are updated yearly, per standard licensing agreement, the update process itself requires user acceptance. Catalog items are divided by administrative area (for example, country, state within a country, country-level regions, where applicable) and can be downloaded when users click on the catalog item.
The map is stored as a protected map on the vehicle. The download does not expire, unless a general update of the map access manager is required or the HERE Navigation subscription ends. HERE Navigation has an optimized hand-over logic for operating from a map stream or cache while online and from the protected on-board map when offline.
NOTE
The map stream and the map data download of a protected map are mandatory sourcing components to use HERE Navigation. HERE Navigation and the HERE location platform, from which content and connected services are delivered, are fully integrated. Map streaming and caching and on-board map downloads and integration with search, routing, and traffic services all work off-the-shelf.

# Battery & Charging


## High Voltage Components

High Voltage Components Overview
All of these components use, control and/or supply High Voltage Electricity:
Front Electric Drive System (EDS)
HV Compressor
HV Heater
Power Distribution Unit, On Board Charging, DC-DC Converter
Vehicle Control Unit (VCU)
HV Battery
Charge Port
HV Wiring
Rear Electric Drive System (EDS)
EMI Filter
WARNING
In the unlikely event of a vehicle fire, immediately contact the local emergency responders.
The High Voltage system has no user serviceable parts. Do not remove or replace high voltage components, cables or connectors.
High Voltage cables are typically colored orange for easy identification.
Contact with High Voltage can lead to fire, electric shock, serious injury or danger to life.
Read and follow all instructions on the labels that are attached to the vehicle. These are provided for your safety.
Even when the battery is low or discharged, High Voltage can still be present throughout the vehicle’s electrical system.

## Charging Instructions

Charging Equipment
The vehicle can be charged via a number of different charging devices. These include Mobile Chargers, Charging Stations, Super Fast Charging Stations and Home Chargers.﻿ The charging devices must have the correct charging adapter to plug into the vehicle.
Vehicle Inlet Socket
This vehicle supports the Combined Charging System (CCS). Depending on the vehicle variant, either the CCS1 or CCS2 standard is provided.
CCS 1 charging handle
CCS 2 charging handle
NOTE
If your vehicle is equipped with a charging inlet that differs from the plug type of the available charger, a adapter such as a CCS1 to CCS2 converter (or vice versa) is required. To ensure safety, always use a genuine adapter. Please contact VinFast for detailed information and assistance in selecting the appropriate adapter.
WARNING
When using an adapter, the vehicle cannot lock the charging handle. Therefore, never remove the charging handle during charging to ensure safety.
Mobile Charger (Level I 220V charger)
If available, mobile charger provides slow charging of the vehicle via AC electricity.
To use mobile charger:
Plug the mobile charger into the 220V power supply socket.
Plug the charging handle into the vehicles charging port.
The vehicle will start to charge via Mobile Charger.
CAUTION
The mobile charger will not work without a ground connection. The wall socket requires a ground pin to connect to the mobile charger. This is required to safely ground the charging system and avoid short circuits.
If the desired wall socket does not have a ground connection, please contact a licensed electrician to have this rectified.
Charging Stations
The vehicle can also be charged at public charging stations. Charging stations may provide either AC or DC charging at various charging rates. Due to the variability between charging stations it is critical to familiarize yourself with the operating instructions of each Charging Station correctly to prevent possible damage to the vehicle and to ensure safety.
Charge Station Identification
To ensure that only a compatible charging station is connected to your vehicle the charge port includes an identification label identifying both the vehicle charging handle type and permissible charging voltage and current limits. Both the vehicle’s AC and DC charge connector type will be represented on this label by a charge type identifier as shown below.
Charge Connector Type
Charge Type Identifier
AC Charging
(Type 2)
DC Charging
(CCS2)
OR
For more detail in regards to charge status indicator lights, See >   Charging Instructions.
WARNING
Always ensure the Charge Type Identifier of both the vehicle and charge station match for either AC or DC charging. Failure to use a suitable charge station may lead to damage to the vehicles high voltage battery or charging system.
NOTE
The use of Super Fast Charging Stations should be minimized to ensure the optimal lifetime performance of the battery.
Home Charger
A home charger can be installed at home or office to provide convenient charging. Typically these will charge the vehicle quicker than the Mobile Charger.
Home chargers need to be hard wired to the power supply in the home. Please contact a licensed electrician for installation.
Please contact a VinFast dealership for information on suitable VinFast wall-mounted home chargers.
Important Safety Warnings regarding Charging
WARNING
Contact with a High Voltage power source can lead to serious injury or risk to life.
Do not touch the contacts on the charging equipment or in the charging port of the vehicle.
Never use damaged, faulty or modified charging equipment.
Never use an extension cord, adapter or power board with charging equipment.
Protect the charging socket and contacts from water or moisture and other liquids.
The charger can generate electromagnetic waves that can affect medical devices such as an implantable cardiac pacemaker.
Always confirm with the medical team and manufacturer whether charging the electric vehicle will impact the operation of the medical devices such as a cardiac pacemaker.
There should be no water or dust in the charging handle connector and plug. Always make sure they are clean before connecting to the charger and charging inlet. Failure to do so may cause electric shock when connection the charging handle or even lead to a fire.
Be careful not to touch or insert anything in the charging outlet holes, charging port holes, and the charging handle holes when connecting the charging handle to the charging port in the vehicle.
Immediately stop charging if abnormal symptoms are detected such as odor or smoke.
If the charge cable outer conduit is damaged then immediately replace the charging cable to prevent electrical shock.
Charging Instructions
Electric vehicles are powered by batteries and motors which use electrical energy that is stored in a high voltage battery.﻿ The high voltage battery can be charged by any of the following methods:
Level I:  The vehicle is supplied with a Level 1 charging cable. The vehicle can be charged from grounded household sockets using Level 1 cables. A household socket connection charges with alternating current. In the case of Level 1 charging cables, the efficiency values may differ from those on the energy label.
Level II:  Using a special plug, a Level 2 charging cable allows users to quickly charge at designated Level 2 charging stations. The charging at Level 2 stations is performed using alternating current. Charging can be completed much faster at a charging station rather than at a household socket.
Level III:  DC charging stations are equipped with a permanent DC charging cable, which makes charging possible. Charging is carried out at DC charging stations using direct current. A DC charger station with a higher current connection charges more quickly than a household socket or a Level 2 charging station.
NOTE
The time it takes to charge the vehicle will depend on the ambient air and battery temperature, the power level of the charger, the charge level of the battery, and the charger type.
The speed of Level III DC Super Fast Charging may be reduced in some circumstances, particularly when the ambient temperature is high. Hence charging will take more time.
WARNING
Chargers generate electromagnetic waves that can seriously affect medical electrical devices, such as implantable cardiac pacemakers. Consult your medical professional or pacemaker manufacturer to ensure the charging of your electric vehicle will not impact the operation of your medical electrical devices.
Never forcefully pull the charging handle from the charging port. Dangerous electrical arcs could result, causing serious injury or death. Always follow the charging shut down process of the charging device and vehicle.
To charge the vehicle follow the process below and the instructions of the charging device. Observe all Warnings and Cautions.
Put the gear into Park and apply the Park Brake.
Check the charging device is compatible with the vehicle.
Open the Charge Port Door and remove the protective caps.
Fully insert the charging handle into the charge port, ensuring it is connected correctly.
Start the charging process at the charging device.
The charging handle will be automatically locked in the charging port during charging.
Observe the charging status on the charge port light, the vehicle display and the charging device.
Lock the vehicle.
To stop charging, unlock the vehicle and follow the instructions on the charging device and on the vehicle display.
The locking pin in the charge port will automatically disengage once charging has stopped. This may take some time after charging has been requested to stop.
Remove the charging handle from the charge port and return it to the charging device.
Replace the charging port caps and close the charging port door.
Further instructions and important information on charging can be found in this section.
Charging Port
The charge port is located at the driver`s side front fender and locked by the central locking system. Open the charge door to access the charge port.
To open the charge port door﻿:
To open the charge port door it first must be unlocked and the vehicle must be in Park (P). You may unlock the charge door by:
Tapping the Unlock button in the  EV App  on the touchscreen.﻿
Using  Emergency Release cable.
NOTE
The charge door will automatically lock if not opened within one minute.
Due to freezing weather, it might be difficult to open the charging door. Tap lightly on the door or remove any ice prior to attempting to open. Don’t forcefully open the door.
Opening the Charge Port Door via the Infotainment screen:
Tap  App Library    then  EV app    OR Tap  Battery  icon at the top of Car Control Area.
Go to  Battery   > Unlock Charge Door
Press on the charge port door to open it.
Charge Port Light
This light indicates the vehicle’s charging status as follows:
No charging cable connected: Light OFF.
Charging cable connected, authenticating: Light OFF.
Charging in progress: Light BLINKING.
Charging complete: Light ON.
Charge Port Door - Emergency Release:
In case of an electrical malfunction, the charge port door can be released by pulling on the emergency release cable   located on the left side within the front cargo compartment.
To plug in a charging handle
To insert the charging handle, grasp the cable or plug firmly and push into the charging port until you hear a click. Make sure the connector is fully inserted and flush with the charge port. A poorly inserted connector may cause prolonged charge sessions or faults.
If you are using the Mobile Charger, plug it into the power outlet before plugging it into the charging port on the vehicle. Align the charging handle to the charge port and insert fully. A locking pin will hold the charging handle in place and charging will begin automatically.
After plugging in the charging handle:
The system will start to authenticate the charging station.
After successful authentication, the vehicle will start charging.
NOTE
If the battery temperature is high, you may notice a delay before charging begins as the battery cools down.
The charging handle needs to be inserted into the charging port within 1 minute of opening the charging port. Otherwise the charging port will become inactive. If this occurs, close and re-open the charging port to reactivate it.
If the vehicle has turned off while the charge port door is open, close and the reopen the charge port door to enable charging.
If the charging handle is not fully inserted the locking pin may not engage and charging will not commence.
Refer to the Charging Fault section below for more information.
WARNING
There should be no water, dust, dirt or debris in the charging handle connector and plug. Always make sure they are clean before connecting to the charger and charging inlet. Connecting while there is water, dust, dirt or debris in the charging handle and plug may cause a fire or electric shock.
Be careful not to touch or insert anything in the charging outlet holes, charging port holes, and the charging handle holes when connecting to the charging port in the vehicle.
Immediately stop charging if abnormal symptoms are detected such as an odor or smoke.
If the cable coating is damaged then immediately replace the charging cable to prevent electrical shock.
CAUTION
Make sure the charging connector and charging plug are always clean and dry. Keep the charging cable away from moisture or water.
EV Charging Settings
For details on available EV Charge settings, See >   EV Battery App > EV Settings
Vehicle Charging Status
The following types of charging status will be shown on touchscreen after plugging in the charger:
Time remaining   : The estimated time remaining to charge to the chosen set limit. See   > EV Battery App  .
Battery Status  : Current battery state of charge (%).
Expected Range   : Expected range as per the battery’s current state of charge.
Battery Temperature  .
Charge cable status  .
Battery state of charge   .
Stop charging   : To stop charging.
NOTE
Energy consumptione by using heating/air conditioning, heated/ventilated seats, defroster, and other functions will consume part of the energy provided by the charger. Reducing usage of these vehicle functions will divert more energy to charging the battery.
Charging values are approximate and for information only.
Cooling system may be activated while charging, so you may hear the air conditioner running.
To stop charging from the touchscreen:
Tap on  Stop Charging   .
Confirm by tapping  Stop Now .
A timer will countdown from 10s to 0s then driver can detach the charge handle from the charge port.
Charging will be stopped.
NOTE
In order to prevent anyone from unplugging the charging handle without authorization, the vehicle must be unlocked before the charging handle can be removed.
During charging, it is normal to hear sounds from the vehicle cooling system, including pumps and fans. Particularly when there is high ambient temperature and high charging current, as the system cools the battery during charging.
Air Conditioning performance may reduce in some circumstances during charging, particularly during high ambient temperature and high charging current. This is normal, to ensure the battery cooling is optimized to maintain battery longevity.
WARNING
When connecting or removing the charging handle, hold the charging handle, not the cable. Pulling the cable itself (without using the handle) may cause the internal wires to break or get disconnected. This may cause electrical shock or fire.
During the charging process, the vehicle will automatically lock the charging handle. Do not use strong force to pull out a locked charging handle, as this may cause serious injury, death or damage to the vehicle.
Manual Release of the Charging handle:
The charging handle is automatically locked in the charge port by a locking pin to prevent accidental or unauthorized disconnection. If the usual methods for releasing the charging handle from the charge port (using the Stop Charging release button) do not work, carefully follow these steps:
Ensure that the vehicle has stopped charging by checking the charging screen on the touchscreen. If necessary, tap on  Stop   Charging .
Turn Off the Vehicle and Remove the Key from the Vehicle.
Open the front cargo compartment.
Remove the Brake Fluid Reservoir access port cover  .
Using a tool, pull the charge port’s release cable   to release the pin that locks the charging handle.
Pull the charging handle from the charge port.
WARNING
Use a screwdriver, hook, pliers or appropriate tool to pull the release cable.
Ensure the vehicle is turned off, as contact with the Front Wiper Motor mechanism could cause serious injury, if the front wiper was turned on.
To close the Charge Port Door:
Close the charge port door and press   to lock it.
CAUTION
Ensure the charging port caps are correctly replaced before closing the charging port door.
Ensure the charging handle and cable are put away correctly, so that they do not cause a tripping hazard, or get caught in or damaged by the vehicle.
Do not drop the charging connector (charging handle). The charging connector can be damaged.
While your vehicle is charging, do not remove the wall plug or mobile charger control box from the wall. Doing so may cause the outlet and cord to be damaged.
AC Scheduled Charging
You can schedule charging by:
Departure time : The charging system will ensure the vehicle is charged to it’s set limit prior to a predefined departure time.
Off-peak hours : The charging system will charge the vehicle at times of off peak power to reduce energy costs and to avoid electrical overload.
See >   EV Battery App  for more information on how to setup scheduled charging.
Charging Faults
Charging Authentication Fault
An authentication fault may occur following connection of the charging handle to the vehicle. An authentication fault may occur when:
The charge station is not compatible with the vehicle
The charging handle or charge station is damaged or not ready to charge
If an authentication fault occurs a message will be shown on the Infotainment Touchscreen. Disconnecting and reconnecting the charging handle or using an alternate charger may correct the authentication issue. Follow all messages shown on the Touchscreen.
If charging does not commence once the charging handle is connected to the vehicle, follow the process below.
Remove the Charging Handle from the Charge Port.
Close the Charge Port Door
Ensure the vehicle is OFF
Lock the Vehicle
Wait 5 minutes for the vehicle to enter Sleep Mode.
Unlock the Vehicle
Open the Charge Port Door
Reconnect the Charging Handle
Check Charging Status
If the issue persists please contact a VinFast Service Center.
Charging handle Fails to Release
If the charging handle can not be removed from the charge port after charging the charging handle locking pin may not have released. If the connector fails to release a message will be shown on the touchscreen and instructions will be provided to manually release the locking pin. For more information See >   Manual Release of the Charg ing handle , earlier in this section.
Battery Leasing Faults (if available)
If an issue exists with a users Battery Leasing account then vehicle charge limits may be reduced until outstanding payments are received. Outstanding invoices can be viewed and actioned via the VinFast app. For further information contact VinFast Customer Support.

## Battery Information

Battery Information
The vehicle has a High Voltage (HV) battery mounted under the vehicle floor and a 12V battery (LV) located at the front of the vehicle.﻿ If the 12V or HV battery needs to be serviced, contact your nearest VinFast Service Center.
For continued optimum battery performance it is important to take proper care of the battery system. For more info on HV and LV batteries see >   Battery Information.
NOTE
When vehicle is left idle and unplugged, it uses energy from the battery for system tests and recharging the 12V battery when necessary.
CAUTION
If the High Voltage battery charging level is less than 5% (Red battery icon in status bar) please charge the vehicle immediately.
If the Battery’s state of charge level falls to 0%, the battery may degrade more quickly.
Battery Leasing Plan Management (if available)
Information regarding the battery lease plan (if applicable) can be viewed on the VinFast Companion App, or by visiting the VinFast Auto website or the nearest VinFast Service Center.
EV Battery App
The EV Battery App shows detailed information about the Vehicle’s High Voltage Battery and Charging System.
To access the EV Battery App:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  EV  app  .
OR
Tap  Battery  icon on the car control area.
Battery Status
Battery status is shown on the EV Battery App as shown below.
Battery Percentage
Expected Range
Battery Temperature
Battery health (SOCE)
Button to unlock the charge door (if available)
NOTE
Energy usage by heating/air conditioning, heated/ventilated seats, defroster, and other functions will consume part of the energy provided by the charger. Reducing usage of these vehicle functions will divert more energy to charging the battery.
Charging values are approximate and for information only.
Charging Settings
Settings below may be available:
Charging Target
Charge Current Limit
Battery Reminder
Charging Progress Indicator (if available)
Charging Target
Charging Target is the maximum state of charge (%) the EV battery is allowed to reach before the charger automatically turns OFF.
To set the Charging Target:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap the  EV  app    > Battery Settings .
Press and slide the slider left/right to set desired charging target.
Battery Charge Current Limit
Adjust the maximum current when charging with an A/C charging station. This setting is only available when charging is in process and will be saved by location.
To set the Charge current limit:
Ensure that a current A/C charging session is active.
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap the  EV  app    > Battery Settings .
Scroll to  Charge Current Limit  and adjust the setting by tapping  +  /  -  on the Infotainment screen.
Battery Level Reminder (if available)
Battery level reminder provides a notification on Infotainment screen, once the battery state of charge reaches the set level. The default value for this setting is 20%.
To adjust the Battery Level Reminder:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap the  EV  app    > Battery Settings .
Scroll to  Battery Level Reminder  and use the slider to adjust the warning threshold.
Once reached, a notification will be provided on the Infotainment screen along with an option to find a charging station.
Battery Leasing (if available)
This page provides information about your battery leasing plan’s duration. Additionally, if you have paid the battery leasing fee but your vehicle is still restricted (limited charging or disabled driving capability) due to a data connection issue, you can perform manual payment verification to temporarily remove the system’s restrictions.
To verify payment and temporarily remove system restrictions, please follow the steps below:
Tap the App Library   on the Infotainment screen, then tap the EV app  .
Or
Tap the Battery icon in the vehicle control area on the Infotainment screen.
Access  Battery Leasing
Select  Verify Payment .
Open the  VinFast app  >  Battery Leasing  >  Verify Payment .
Enter the verification code from the Infotainment screen into the VinFast app for verification.
After successful verification, the system will automatically generate an OTP code and send it to your phone.
Enter the OTP code into the Infotainment screen to verify payment and temporarily remove system restrictions.
NOTE
A notification will be displayed on the Infotainment screen upon successful payment verification.
The temporary restriction removal time will vary depending on the vehicle version or market. Please contact VinFast’s customer care center or service workshop for assistance.
After verification and temporary removal of system restrictions, please move the vehicle to a convenient location to reconnect to the server system. If the vehicle remains restricted and cannot connect to the server, please contact VinFast’s customer care center or service workshop for assistance.
Battery Care
The HV battery is maintenance free. Always pay attention to the battery status and never allow it to fully discharge. Even when the vehicle is not being driven, the battery discharges very slowly to power the on board electronics. On average, the battery discharges at a rate of approximately 1% per day. The discharge rate may vary depending on environmental factors (such as cold weather), configuration, and selected settings. If the vehicle is not used for long periods of time (approx. 2-3 weeks), ensure that the vehicle’s HV battery is always above 30% (preferable between 30% to 60%).
If the high voltage battery needs to be inspected, tested, or replaced, it should only be done by a trained technician. If the 12-volt or high voltage battery needs to be serviced, contact your nearest VinFast Service Center. They will be able to provide information about how the high voltage battery can be recycled.
Operational factors that may affect battery lifespan
During vehicle operation, certain driving habits may subject the high-voltage battery to elevated temperatures and high electrical loads for extended periods, which may affect battery life and performance.
Frequent sudden acceleration
Repeated hard acceleration or aggressive throttle input can cause the battery to deliver high current over a short period, increasing battery temperature and stress on the battery cells.
Recommendation: Accelerate gradually and drive smoothly to help maintain stable battery operation and extend battery life.
Parking in High-Temperature Environments for Extended Periods
High ambient temperatures, especially when the vehicle is parked under direct sunlight for extended periods, can increase battery temperature and accelerate battery aging
Recommendation: Whenever possible, park the vehicle in a shaded, well-ventilated area to help protect the battery.
Operating the Vehicle with the Battery at High Temperature for Extended Periods
Continuous operation at elevated battery temperatures can accelerate side reactions inside the battery cells, reducing battery lifespan.
Recommendation: Reduce aggressive acceleration, drive gently, and allow sufficient time for the battery to cool down when necessary.
NOTE
It is recommended to leave the vehicle plugged in whenever not in use, battery’s lifetime performance increases whenever charged regularly.
For optimal lifetime performance of the battery, minimize the use of Super fast DC Charging
If a battery pack has been involved in a fire it will need to be replaced. It may also need to be returned to the manufacturer for investigation.
If vehicle is unresponsive and does not unlock, open, or charge, the 12V battery may be discharged. In this situation, try jump starting the 12V Battery. If the vehicle is still unresponsive, contact VinFast Service Center.
Charge the vehicle HV battery to 100% SOC at least every month. For any concerns, please contact a VinFast Service Center.
CAUTION
If battery charging level is less than 5% (Red bar in display) please charge the vehicle immediately.
If the Battery’s state of charge level falls to 0%, the battery may degrade more quickly.
Do not store the vehicle near heat sources, which may damage the battery or vehicle.
Do not store the vehicle in areas which may flood, as flooding may damage the battery or vehicle.
WARNING
In case of damage to the high voltage battery or other high voltage components, there is a risk of electric shock, overheating, or fire.
The vehicle should be inspected as soon as possible if it has been damaged from a moderate to severe crash, flood, fire, or other incident. The vehicle should be kept outside until it has been inspected at a distance of at least 15m (50ft) from any structure or anything that can burn. Open a window or door of the vehicle to allow air to circulate inside.
Temperature Limits
Avoid exposing the vehicle to ambient temperatures above 55°C (151°F) or below -35°C (-31°F) for more than 24 hours. Ideally, store the vehicle in climate control garage if extreme ambient temperatures are expected. Failure to follow this temperature recommendation may permanently degrade battery performance.
NOTE
Temperatures below -35°C (-31°F) or above 55°C (151°F) cause the battery to go into protection mode which prevents charging and some features from functioning.
Low Power Consumption Mode
To protect against complete HV battery discharge, the vehicle enters a low power consumption mode when the charge level is very low. In this mode, the HV Battery stops supporting the on-board electronics to slow the discharge rate. Once this low power consumption mode is active it is important to charge the vehicle as soon as possible, to avoid possible battery damage.
When the low-power consumption mode is active, the 12V battery is no longer charged and can completely discharge. If this occurs, the 12V battery will need to be charged or replaced before commencing any HV charging of the vehicle. To conserve energy, select the ECO driving mode from CarBuddy controls.
CAUTION
Do not allow the HV battery to completely discharge. There is a possibility that the HV will no longer charge if left discharged for long periods of time.

# Maintenance


## General Information

Vehicle Care Overview
To ensure trouble free use of the vehicle the maintenance requirements stipulated in this chapter should be carried out regularly. If any abnormal sounds, vibrations occur please visit a VinFast Service Center to have the vehicle inspected. Regular maintenance and servicing is recommended to prevent operational problems with the vehicle.
CAUTION
Service procedures must be carried out by an authorized VinFast technician.

## Fluids, Lubricants and Parts

Cabin Air Filter
The air conditioner cabin filter is a common filter element that prevents dust, pollen and other pollutants from entering the vehicle. ﻿To achieve the best filtering effects, please replace the cabin filter within the specified maintenance interval specified by VinFast.
The cabin air filter should be replaced according to the Maintenance Schedule. If the vehicle is operated in severely air polluted cities or on dusty rough roads for a long period, it should be inspected more frequently and replaced sooner.
NOTE
Filter life depends on atmospheric conditions.
It is recommended that Service procedurest be carried out by an authorized VinFast technician.
Filter Replacement
To remove the Cabin Air filter:
Open the glove box and carefully push in the sides of the glove box past the two side clips   to disengage the glove box﻿.
Remove the Air Filter Cover   by depressing and un-clicking the retaining tab on the right side.
Remove the Air Filter  , by pulling it out.
To install the Cabin Air filter:
To install a new air filter, reassemble in the reverse order of removal process.
Coolant
Coolant is used to maintain the operating temperature of certain components in the vehicle.﻿ Weekly checking of the cooling system is recommended. When checking, the vehicle should be parked on flat ground and the cooling system must be cold. Check the condition of the system hoses, ensuring that they are not cracked, swollen or deteriorated.
Use only designated coolant water for electric vehicles, adding other types of water or antifreeze can damage the vehicle.
The coolant change work should be carried out by a qualified VinFast technician.
See >   Technical Specifications > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts Overview  for the recommended coolant to use.
To Top-up the coolant:
Park the vehicle on flat ground and ensure the vehicles motor compartment has cooled down.
Open the front hood to expose the front cargo compartment.
Locate the Coolant reservoir by removing the panel  .
The cap and bottle should now be accessible. Slowly unfasten the filler cap(s) by turning it in an anti-clockwise direction, if there is a “hiss” sound stop turning the cap and wait until the sound stops. Then proceed to remove it.
Refill using Anti-Freeze Pre-Mixed Coolant AF2100 (ASTM D3306) 50% Glycol & 50% Water mixture.
Fasten and secure the filler cap(s) back on by turning it in a clockwise direction.
NOTE
If the coolant level in the reservoir reaches below 25% of its capacity an audible alert will sound indicating low coolant level.
Ensure the cap and bottle are free from debris and clean before opening to prevent any debris from entering the reservoir.
In an emergency, a small amount of water can be added to the coolant storage tank. However, it should be noted that this will weaken the anti-freeze and anti-corrosion protection and reduces the service life of the coolant. Do not use other components of antifreeze to add to the cooling system.
As the vehicle coolant temperature decreases, the radiator fan will automatically shut off. This is a normal condition.
CAUTION
Keep coolant in a sealed container in a safe place.
Don’t fill the coolant reservoir to a level that it overflows. Coolant left on a metallic surface for long periods of time may cause rust.
WARNING
The coolant reservoir cap should not be removed when the vehicle is ON or when the cooling system is hot. Let the cooling system completely cool before removing the cap. Remove the coolant reservoir cap slowly and cover it with a thick cloth to prevent scalding. Not following these instructions may result in serious injury.
Coolant is extremely toxic and can be fatal if swallowed. Keep coolant tanks sealed and out of reach of children. If a child has accidentally ingestion the coolant, seek medical attention immediately.
Prevent coolant from making contact with skin and eyes. If it does, rinse immediately with plenty of water.
When changing coolant be careful, as there are High Voltage components in this area.
Do not touch heater, radiator, A/C pipes or hoses. They can be very hot and can cause severe burns.
Do not run the vehicle if there is a leak; all coolant could leak out, causing a fire or lead to severe burns. Any leaks must be fixed by an Authorized VinFast Service Center before driving the vehicle.
Keep hands, clothing and tools away from the rotating fan blades of the radiator cooling fan, to avoid injury.
Washer Fluid
Washer fluid is used for cleaning the windshield with the operation of the windshield wipers. It is recommended to always check the fluid level in the washer fluid reservoir and add fluid if necessary.
When the washer fluid level is low, the Low washer fluid symbol   will be displayed on the touchscreen to alert the driver.
The washer fluid reservoir is located under the front hood of the vehicle.
To Top-up the Washer Fluid﻿:
Pull open the washer fluid cap.
Refill washer bottle with washer fluid until full.
Push close the washer bottle cap, ensuring it is properly attached.
NOTE
Always add appropriate washer fluid to the water, if using plain water instead of appropriate washer fluid, anti-freezing agent should be added to the water so that it does not freeze.
Always read the manufacturer’s instructions before using any washer fluid.
CAUTION
Add washer fluid carefully, do not let it splash onto the exterior surface of the vehicle.
The windscreen and wiper may get scratched or damaged if the wiper is turned on without using the washer when the windscreen is dry.
The concentration of anti-freezing agent must be adjusted to the vehicle operating conditions and the climate. A concentration that is too high can lead to vehicle damage.
Adding the appropriate washer fluid when refilling the washer fluid reservoir.
WARNING
Do not touch any High Voltage components in washer fluid reservoir area.
Washer fluid can irritate eyes and skin. Read and observe the instructions provided by the washer fluid manufacturer.
In temperatures below 4° C (40° F), use a washer fluid with antifreeze. In cold weather, using a washer fluid without antifreeze can impair visibility through the windshield.
Do not drink washer fluid and avoid contact with skin. Washer fluid is harmful to humans and animals.
Keep washer fluid away from children and animals.
Wiper Blades
Windshield wiper blades should be inspected on a regular basis for wear or cracking. Contamination of either the windshield or the wiper blades with foreign matter can reduce the effectiveness of the windshield wipers.
Common sources of contamination are:
Insects
Tree sap
Hot wax treatments used by some commercial car washes
If the blades are not wiping properly, clean both the windshield and the blades with a mild detergent, and rinse thoroughly with clean water.
Wiper blades will degrade over time and eventually require replacement. If water is not sufficiently cleared from the windscreen and blades squeak when operating the wipers, blade replacement may be required.
Front Wiper Blades Replacement
To remove the front wiper blades:
Keep the bonnet closed.
The vehicle needs to be in ACC power mode.
Set Wiper Service Mode to On
The front wipers will stop at a 45 degree angle, allowing the owner to lift the wiper arm from the windshield.
Lift the wiper arm away from the windshield.
Open the cover in the direction shown, and pull the upper end of the wiper outwards to release it from the wiper arm.
Remove the wiper from the wiper arm.
Place the joint of the new wiper into the slot of the wiper arm.
Push the wiper towards the wiper arm until the wiper is fully embedded, then close the cover.
Place the wiper assembly back on the windshield and check that the wiper is properly attached to the wiper arm.
Rear Wiper Blade Replacement
The vehicle needs to be in ACC power mode.
Set Wiper Service Mode to On.
The rear wiper will stop in a vertical position, allowing the owner to lift the wiper arm from the windshield﻿.
Replace the rubber wiper blade.
Place the wiper assembly back on the windshield and check that the wiper is properly attached to the wiper arm.
Select Off from the touchscreen to return the Wiper back to the home position.﻿
NOTE
Always use replacement blades that are identical to original blades. Using inappropriate blades can damage the wiper system and windshield.
Allowing the wiper arm to touch the windshield when no wiper blade is installed could damage the windshield. Any damage that occurs would not be covered by the vehicle warranty. Do not allow the wiper arm to touch the windshield.
CAUTION
Wiper blades cannot be locked into a lifted position. Do not lift a wiper arm beyond its intended position, it can cause damage to wiper blade.
Brake Pads & Fluids
Brake pads and brake fluid are the main components of the vehicle braking system, If they get damaged then it will affect the braking ability of the vehicle. The driver should always take care and inspect brake pads and fluids on a regular basis.
Brake Pads
All brake pads should be checked and renewed as necessary. Brake pad wear depends largely on the way the vehicle is driven and on the vehicle operating conditions. Brake pad wear increases when driving frequently in the city or short distances or when driving aggressively.
The vehicle is equipped with brake pad wear indicators. A wear indicator is a thin metal strip that is attached to the brake pad that will produce a squealing sound when it comes in contact with the brake rotor. The sound will be heard when the brake pad material has worn to the end of its service life. If this occurs or there is difficulty stopping the vehicle when the brake pedal is pressed, please contact VinFast Service Center to have the braking system inspected.
NOTE
Always replace brake pads as a set, either both front or both rear sets.
To avoid costly brake repairs, do not continue to drive with worn brake pads.
WARNING
Neglecting to service the vehicle braking system may result in reduced brake system performance, increasing the stopping distance which may lead to a collision.
Replace worn brake pads immediately. Damage to the braking system can result in a braking hazard.
The braking effect may get reduced if the brake pads become wet, after heavy rainfall or after washing the vehicle. Be prepared to exert higher force on the brake pedal in order to compensate.
A salt layer on the brake pads may effect the braking performance of the vehicle.
Overheated brakes reduce the braking effect and considerably increase the braking distance.
Brake Fluid
Brake fluid is a type of hydraulic fluid used in hydraulic brake systems to transfer force into pressure.
The brake fluid level in the reservoir should be checked regularly. Brake fluid will absorb moisture from the atmosphere over time. The hydraulic braking system may get damaged if there is too much moisture in the braking fluid.
To Check the Brake Fluid:
Make sure the vehicle is parked on a flat ground
Let the braking system cool down.
Brake fluid reservoir is located under the cover plate  . Open the cover plate by pulling the plastic tabs on the side of the plate.
The fluid level should be between the MIN and MAX indicator marks as shown on the side of the reservoir.
There are two reasons why the brake fluid level in the reservoir may go down:
Brake pads normal wear. When new pads are installed, the fluid level goes back up.
Fluid leak in the hydraulic brake system. Have the hydraulic brake system fixed. With a leak, the brakes will not work well.
Always clean the brake fluid reservoir cap and the area around the cap before removing and installing the cap.
Do not top off the brake fluid.
If fluid is added due to worn pads, when new brake pads are installed there will be too much fluid. Add or remove fluid, as necessary, only when work is performed on hydraulic brake system.
NOTE
The brake fluid used in this vehicle is DOT 4. Do not mix other types of brake fluid, otherwise it will cause damage to the braking system and components.
The red brake indicator   on the touchscreen will illuminate if the brake fluid in the reservoir drops below the recommended level. The ABS indicator   may also illuminate while driving. Visit a VinFast Service Center as soon as possible.
NOTE
The brake fluid level drops slightly during vehicle operation and as the brake pads wear.
CAUTION
Only use new fluid from a sealed airtight container. Never use previously used fluid or fluid from an opened container, as brake fluid has a tendency to absorb moisture which decreases braking performance.
Do not allow any brake fluid to come into contact with the vehicle paint to avoid corrosion.
Contact VinFast immediately if any increased movement of the brake pedal or a significant loss of brake fluid is present. Driving under these conditions can result in extended stopping distances or complete brake failure.
WARNING
The brake fluid level must be between MIN and MAX level. Brake fluid may leak out over the edge of the reservoir if the brake fluid level is above the MAX marking and it can result in damage to the vehicle.
If the brake light illuminates while driving, stop as soon as safely possible and check the brake fluid. If left unchecked, this may prevent effective braking and cause increased movement in brake pedal and/or complete brake failure.
Brake fluid is highly toxic. Keep brake fluid storage tanks sealed and out of reach of children. Seek medical attention immediately is accidentally exposed to any brake fluid.
Prevent brake fluid from making contact with skin and eyes. If contact is made, rinse immediately with water. If redness, pain or discomfort persists, seek medical attention as soon as possible.
Never touch any of the High Voltage components in the brake fluid reservoir area.
Using the incorrect or contaminated brake fluid could result in damage to the brake system. This could result in the loss of braking leading to a possible injury. Always use the proper manufactured approved brake fluid.
Air Conditioner
In order to ensure continuous and efficient operation of the air conditioning system, regardless of the weather and time of the year, a few minutes of cooling must be performed once a month.
The Air conditioning system in the vehicle is filled with R134a refrigerant. The technical details of the air conditioning refrigerant can be found on the label inside the hood of the vehicle.﻿ Alternatively See >   Technical specification > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts Overview   in this Owner manual.
NOTE
Use only the correct refrigerant and air-conditioning compressor oil.
In humid climates, the air conditioning may create water droplets inside the vehicle. It is recommended to use the air conditioner with the windows closed.
Electric vehicles run much quieter than a gasoline-powered vehicles, therefore the sound of the A/C compressor may be more noticeable.
WARNING
Air conditioning systems contain high-pressured refrigerants. Air conditioning refrigerant systems should only be serviced by qualified personnel. Opening the air conditioner refrigerant system can result in serious injuries.

## Electrical System

Fuses and Circuit Breakers
The vehicle has fuses and circuit breakers to protect against an electrical system overload. The three main fuse boxes in the vehicle are located in the driver side left-hand panel, in the front cargo compartment under the hood, and on top of the 12V battery. ﻿It is strongly recommended to have electrical fuses changed or inspected by VinFast technician.
Whenever a fuse blows, the element inside is melted or broken. If there is a problem and a fuse needs to be replaced, ensure a fuse of the identical size and rating is used. If the fuse on the replacement blows immediately, please contact the local Authorized VinFast Service Center for maintenance as soon as possible.
CAUTION
A fuse must not be replaced with anything but another fuse with the same rating.
Never try to repair a blown fuse.
Do not use copper wire or aluminum foil as a temporary substitute for the proper fuse. Such substitutes can cause extensive wiring damage, possibly resulting in a fire.
Avoid using a screwdriver or any other metal objects to remove fuses, as they may cause short circuits.
WARNING
Fuses and circuit breakers are marked with their ampere rating. Do not exceed the specified amperage rating when replacing fuses and circuit breakers. The use of an oversized fuse or circuit breaker can result in a vehicle fire causing serious injury or death.
Installing fuses that do not meet VinFast’s original fuse specifications is dangerous. The fuses could fail, resulting in a fire causing vehicle damage and/or death.
Spilling liquid on any electrical component on the vehicle may damage it. Always be very careful when working around electrical components.
IP Fusebox
To access instrument panel fuses:
Turn the vehicle Off.
Make sure all switches are in the Off position.
Open the coin cargo compartment, which is located on the lower left hand side of the driver.
Push the inner sides, while pulling out the coin storage box to expose the fuses.
Refer to the description provided inside the fuse panel cover to place the required fuse.
Remove the required fuse by using the removal tool which is provided in the Engine Bay fuse box.
Check and replace the blown fuse.
Make sure the replaced fuse has the same rating and it fits tightly in its place. If in doubt, please contact a VinFast service technician.
Fuse Details:
Front Cargo Compartment Fusebox
To access Front Cargo Compartment fuses:
Turn the vehicle Off.
Make sure all switches are in the Off position.
Open the front cargo compartment.
Remove the fuse box cover plate by pressing the tab at the bottom of the plate.
Remove the fuse panel cover by pressing the two tabs and pulling upwards.
Refer to the description provided inside the fuse panel cover to place the required fuse.
Remove the blown fuse out by using the removal tool which is provided in the Engine Bay fuse box.
Check and replace the blown fuse.
Make sure the replaced fuse has the same rating and it fits tightly in its place. If in doubt please contact a VinFast service technician.
NOTE
Remember to securely install the fuse panel cover back, if not securely attached water may enter and cause electrical damage.
If a multi-fuse has blown, it is recommended to contact a VinFast service technician.
Front Cargo Compartment Fuse Label:
12v Auxiliary Battery Fuse box:
To access 12v Auxiliary Battery Fuse box:
Turn the vehicle Off.
Make sure all switches are in the Off position.
Open the front cargo compartment.
Remove the battery cover plate by pressing the tab at the bottom of the plate.
Remove the fuse panel cover by pressing the two tabs and pulling upwards.
Refer to the description provided inside the fuse panel cover to place the required fuse.
Remove the blown fuse out by using the removal tool which is provided in the Engine Bay fuse box.
Check and replace the blown fuse.
Make sure the replaced fuse has the same rating and it fits tightly in its place. If in doubt please contact a VinFast service technician.
Fuse Label:
Lights
The vehicle is fitted with Light Emitting Diodes (LED’s) in all interior and exterior lights. These are not serviceable items, therefore it is recommended for any light replacement to contact your Authorized VinFast Service Center.﻿ Replacement lights must be of the same type and size as the original lights.
Exterior Lights
Front light:
Decoration lamp
High beams
Low beam
Side Marker (if equipped)
Fog & Cornering lamp (if equipped)
Turn Signal
Daytime Running lamp
Rear Lights:
Center High Mount Stop Light (CHMSL)
Rear Lights
Rear Tailgate Light
License Plate Light
Rear reflector or Rear Fog Lamp (if equipped)
Rear Lights:
Red Cover
Tail light
Stop / Brake light
Reverse light
Turn Indicator light
CAUTION
Immediately replace the LED if the light is dimmed, cracked or damaged and carefully dispose of.
NOTE
The LED lamp is an integrated unit and hence cannot be replaced individually. The whole unit has to be replaced at the same time.
Interior Lights
All the interior lights are LED, therefore it is recommended to visit a VinFast Service Center for any replacement or faults.
CAUTION
Do not touch the glass portion of the LED with bare hands.
If holding the glass portion is unavoidable, hold it using a clean dry cloth to avoid contact with moisture and grease.
Battery
The vehicle is equipped with a 12V battery that is used to power the vehicle and its electrical components.
Even when the electrical equipment is switched off, the battery can still drain if it is not driven for long periods of time. Contact an authorized VinFast dealer or authorized VinFast service facility for more information.
NOTE
If the vehicle becomes unresponsive and does not unlock, open, or charge, the low voltage battery may be discharged. Contact a VinFast authorized service center.
When the vehicle is parked for a long time (more than 1 month), it is recommended to disconnect the negative terminal of the battery. Make sure the ignition switch is off before connecting or disconnecting the negative terminal of the vehicle battery.
In extreme cold weather conditions, have the battery checked at an Authorized VinFast Service Center before driving.
CAUTION
Always read and follow instructions carefully when handling a battery.
Do not use the Battery as a stationary power source. Doing so voids the warranty.
WARNING
Wear correct PPE (Personal protective equipment) to avoid injury from acid splashes from the battery.
Keep batteries out of reach from children.
Batteries contain sulfuric acid, avoid contact with skin and eyes or clothes.
Wash immediately with water if contact is made. Seek medical attention if you feel pain or burning sensations.
Never touch any of the electrical system components when vehicle is starting or when ignition is On.
The Battery has no parts that the owner or a non-VinFast authorized service technician can service. Under no circumstances should the Battery be opened or tamper with. Contact Authorized VinFast Service Center to arrange for Battery servicing.
Battery Maintenance:
To ensure optimum working of electronics components of the vehicle, check the health of the 12V battery regularly.
Ensure battery is securely mounted
Ensure battery is clean and dry, with no visible liquid leaks
Ensure battery terminals and connections are always clean, secure and are coated with terminal grease
Battery Replacement:
Only use parts authorized by VinFast. It is recommended to install the same type and specification battery as the original battery. Please contact an authorized VinFast dealer for more details.
The following functions may need to be reset after the battery has been disconnected:
Liftgate
Climate control settings
Clock and Phone settings
Infotainment system

## Wheels and Tires

Tires
There are two tire options available depending on the region of sale and variant of the vehicle. The following tire options are:
225/55 R19
245/45 R20
Depending on the climate where the vehicle will be driven, alternative tires may be needed. These are classified as Summer, Winter or All Season tires. Please visit a VinFast Service Center for more information.
Tire Care
To ensure safety of all the passengers and maximize the efficiency and range of the vehicle, it is recommended to maintain proper tire pressures and stay within the specified load limits of the vehicle.
Any tires that show uneven wear & tear or are damaged must be replaced or repaired as soon as possible. Worn tires can cause loss of traction, braking effectiveness and can effect steering control.
The tire size and pressure information can be found on the label attached to the door frame on the driver’s seat side. See >   Wheels and Tires > Tire pressure  .
Tire Inspection
Inspect the tire tread and side walls on a regular basis for signs of cuts, or wear, foreign objects or distortion.
NOTE
Always replace tires with the same size, type, make and tread pattern as originally supplied by the vehicle manufacturer.
Tire pressure indicator telltale   will illuminate on the touchscreen if the tire is under/over-inflated.
Parking outside in direct or indirect sunlight may cause a difference in tire pressure. An increase of tire pressure is expected tires are warm. In an attempt to maintain recommended air pressure do not release air pressure from a warm tire, this can cause the tire to be under-inflated.
Please rectify any tire that is damaged, excessively worn, or incorrectly inflated before driving.
Spare Tire (if equipped)
The vehicle is equipped with one spare tire located in the rear cargo compartment under the cargo floor mat.
T145/80 R19
The maximum allowable vehicle speed for the spare tire is indicated on a sticker located on the spare wheel. The spare tire is fully inflated when new, however, it can lose air over time. Check the inflation pressure regularly. Always correctly stow and inspect the spare tire to ensure it is ready for use when needed.
The damaged or flat road tire should be repaired or replaced and installed back onto the vehicle as soon as possible so that the spare tire will be available in case it is needed again.
NOTE
A spare tire is for TEMPORARY USE ONLY. Drive carefully when a spare tire is fitted on the vehicle. Do not exceed speeds more than 60 km/h (or 37 mph).
The tire size and pressure information can be found on the tire sidewall.
Always replace the spare tire in the case of abnormal wear & tear, distortions or bulges.
Non-pneumatic tire are not recommended to be used on the vehicle.
WARNING
The use of any space saving spare tire is NOT recommended. If there is a problem with the tire or wheel, use the inflator kit (if equipped).   See >Vehicle Jack & Tire Repair   section or reach the roadside assistance service. If you need a spare tire, only utilize full size spare tire. Always drive carefully when driving with a spare tire. It is for temporary use only. Be aware that the handling performance may be affected when using spare tires.
Failure to follow this can lead to an accident, causing serious injury or death.
Do not drive the vehicle above the indicated maximum speed shown on the spare wheel.
Do not tow a trailer (if available) when a spare tire is fitted.
Do not drive if the spare tire is damaged or not properly inflated. This can cause serious damage to the vehicle and a risk to passenger safety.
The vehicle’s suspension is designed for a specific tire and rim size combination. Only fit tire and wheel combinations as specified by VinFast. Failure to follow this can increase the risk of serious injuries in the event of an accident.
Tire Pressure
All tire pressures including the spare tire (if equipped) should be checked when the tires are cold. Always check the tire pressure on a regular basis.
Tires need the correct amount of air pressure to operate effectively.
The Tire and Loading Information label on the vehicle indicates the original equipment tires and the correct cold tire inflation pressures. The recommended pressure is the minimum air pressure needed to support the vehicle’s maximum load carrying capacity.
Tire Pressure Placard
The recommended tire pressure is listed on the label attached to the driver’s side center pillar:
Vehicle Type
VF 8
Variant
ECO/S LUX
PLUS/LUX PLUS
Spare
Tire Dimension
225/55 R19
245/45 R20
145/80 R19
Cold Tire Pressure
01-03 Pax
FRONT
250 KPA, 36 PSI
(Pin SDI)
260 KPA, 38 PSI
(Pin CATL)
250 KPA, 36 PSI
(Pin SDI)
260 KPA, 38 PSI
(Pin CATL)
420 KPA,
61 PSI
REAR
270 KPA,
39 PSI (Pin SDI)
280 KPA, 41 PSI
(Pin CATL)
250 KPA,
36 PSI (Pin SDI)
260 KPA, 38 PSI
(Pin CATL)
04-05 Pax
FRONT
280 KPA,
41 PSI
280 KPA,
41 PSI
REAR
300 KPA,
43 PSI
300 KPA,
43 PSI
Wheel rim size
7.5Jx19
8Jx20
Wheel rim type
Alloy
Alloy
Wheel Offset (mm)
50
55
Tire pressure can be monitored by the driver via the touchscreen.
It is important that the tire pressures are correct to maximize the tire life and vehicle performance. Under inflated tires will wear out the inner and outer edges of the tire and cause the vehicle to handle poorly due to tire flexibility.
Over inflated tires will have a smaller contact area on the road surface, and therefore have reduced traction. The center of the tire will tend to wear out faster if tires are over inflated.
To check Tire Pressure:
It is recommended to check the tire pressure every 14 days or before long-distance travel. If there is a spare tire, also check the pressure of this tire.
The tire pressures can be checked by any of the following methods:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen
Tap  Service     > Vehicle Status > Tire Pressure.
Alternatively tire pressure current status can be viewed in Car Control Area, see >   Car Control Area > Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS)  .
To check Tire pressure manually﻿:
Remove the valve cap from the tire valve stem.
Press the tire gauge firmly onto the valve to get a pressure measurement. If the cold tire inflation pressure matches the recommended pressure on the Tire Placard no further adjustment is necessary.
If the pressure is low, add air until the recommended pressure is reached﻿.
If the tire is overfilled, release air by pushing on the metal stem in the center of the tire valve. Recheck the tire pressure with the pressure gauge.
Put the valve caps back on the valve stems. Without the valve cap, dirt or moisture could get into the valve and cause air leakage. If a valve cap is missing, install a new one as soon as possible.
If a tire is not maintaining pressure, please have the tire inspected by a VinFast Service Center.
NOTE
Incorrectly inflated tires may wear faster and create more road noise.
WARNING
Driving with an incorrectly inflated tire can affect the vehicle handling, steering and braking. This can lead to an accident, causing serious injury or risk to life.
Under-inflated tires are the most common cause of tire failures and can cause severe tire cracking, tread separation, or blowout, resulting in sudden loss of vehicle control and injuries.
Insufficient tire pressure leads to tire sidewall flexing and an increase of rolling resistance, which results in heat buildup and internal damage. Additionally, it can contribute to tire damage, irregular tire wear and loss of vehicle control. It is possible for a tire to lose up to half of its air pressure and not appear flat!
Tire Pressure Monitoring System
The tire pressure monitoring system (TPMS) measures each tire’s pressure. If one or more tires are significantly under inflated or if the system is malfunctioning, a warning telltale illuminates. The system uses sensors in each wheel to show information related to the vehicle tire pressures and warns if any tires are under-inflated. Tire Pressures are displayed on the touchscreen. touchscreen, see Car Control Area >   Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS)  .
TPMS Sensors
The TPMS system uses sensors in each tire that transmit real-time information on tire pressure and temperature. The sensors are attached to the valve.
Each sensor has an inbuilt battery and antenna.
NOTE
If the TPMS sensor battery gets depleted, then the unit needs to be replaced.
TPMS warning system
The TPMS system warns the driver if the tire pressure is below or above the recommended pressure. If an issue or missing sensor signal is detected, a TPMS alert symbol   will be displayed on the touchscreen. An alert popup will also be shown on the touchscreen and an audible chime will be heard, see >   Car Control Area > Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS)  .
Tire pressure status display: Displayed value is rounded value, actual pressure is slightly difference
Normal Pressure
TPMS sensor battery low
High Tire Pressure
Tire Rapid Air Loss
Low Tire Pressure
Tire Sensor failure
Lost connection with Tire sensor
Relearning of TPMS sensors:
See   > Car Control Area > Tire Pressure (TPMS)   for more details on TPMS sensor relearning.
CAUTION
The spare tire, if equipped, is not fitted with a TPMS sensor. Under-inflation of this tire will not be detected by the TPMS system. The pressure in the spare tire should be checked by using tire pressure gauge regularly.
If a tire inflater kit (if equipped) is used on a tire the sealant may block the TPMS sensor. If this occurs the sensor will need to be cleaned or replaced.
Tire sealant materials are not all the same. A non-approved tire sealant could damage the TPMS sensors.
WARNING
Tire pressures should also be checked regularly, using an accurate pressure gauge when the tires are cold.
If a tire pressure alert is displayed on the screen, immediately reduce the speed of the vehicle and stop as soon as possible. Check tire pressures of all the tires before resuming your journey.
If required, use the spare wheel in the rear cargo compartment to replace the defected tire or use a tire repair kit to repair the tire.
If a tire pressure is low, try to avoid any sudden direction changes or hard braking maneuvers.
Driving with an incorrectly inflated tire can affect the vehicle handling, steering and braking. This can lead to an accident, causing serious injury or death.
Always adapt tire pressures to your driving style and the vehicle load. Overloading can lead to loss of vehicle control and can increase the risk of an accident.
Incorrect tire pressures increase tire wear and has a negative effect on driving and braking behavior, which increases the risk of an accident.
TPMS is not a substitute for regular tire maintenance.
The driver maintain correct tire pressure in all the tires even if the tire hasn’t reached a state to trigger Low TPMS alert telltale.
Tire Wear & Tread Depth
The tire is designed with a tread pattern wear indicator line. If a tire’s tread is worn down to one sixteenth of an inch (2 mm), it must be replaced so that the vehicle does not skid or hydroplane. Built-in tread wear indicators, or wear bars, which appear as thin, smooth rubber strips across the tread, will appear once the tread wears. If necessary, a tread depth gauge can be used to measure.
The wear should be even across the tire. The left and right tires should have the same amount of tread depth, to prevent the vehicle from loosing control while driving.
Tire wear
The following situations can increase tire wear:
Inflation pressure that is too low or high can significantly increase tire wear.
Driving on curved roads at high speeds, rapid acceleration, and heavy braking increases the tire wear﻿.
WARNING
Replace the worn or damaged tire immediately. Worn or damaged tires can cause loss of braking, steering control, and traction.
It is recommended to replace the tires in sets i.e. replace either both front two or rear two tires.
Always replace tires with the same size that was originally supplied.
Driving in hot weather or an overloaded vehicle can cause the tires to wear out faster. Regular inspection of the tire is recommended.
The grip of damaged tires is very low, especially on wet roads, which can cause the vehicle to float on the road surface (hydroplaning).
CAUTION
When the vehicle is in high speed and/or in wet conditions. Steering and braking will not perform optimally.
Tire Rotation
The vehicle’s tires are critical components that ensure optimum performance of steering, handling, and braking functions. This performance can be impacted by uneven tire wear and as a result it is important to ensure tires are rotated on a regular basis. Rotation will extend tread life, help to maintain mud, snow, and wet traction levels, and contribute to a smooth and quiet ride.
To make the wear of each tire uniform and extend its life, it is recommended that the tires be rotated. During rotation, check the tires for correct balance. If the abnormal wear continues after the rotation, check the wheel alignment.
NOTE
Tire rotation does not include the spare tire (if equipped).
Please refer to the below pattern when changing the tire positions:
Check whether the tread pattern or the side of the tire is damaged. If the tire is damaged or inflated, replace the tire immediately.
Check the wear and condition of the brake disc and brake pads.
After the tires are rotated, make sure that the front and rear tire pressures and wheel nut torque meet the specified values.
The Tire Pressure Monitoring System needs to be calibrated to relearn the tires new position, See >   Wheels and Tires > TPMS.
CAUTION
The tires fitted to the vehicle at the factory are directional tires. They are only designed to roll in one direction. It is not recommended to rotate the tires diagonally (e.g. rear left to front right or rear right to front left) as this will require removing the tire from the rim.
Please visit a VinFast Service Center to rotate the tires diagonally if needed.
It is necessary to update the sensor settings for the tire pressure monitoring system if the tire label shows different tire pressures for the front and rear tires. The system should always be reset after tire rotation. Otherwise this may display inaccurate pressures and warnings to the driver.
WARNING
Do not use the compact spare tire for tire rotation.
Do not mix bias ply and radial ply tires under any circumstances. This can lead to abnormal handling features that can cause the wheels to loosen over time. The wheel may fall off and cause an accident.
Rust or dirt on a wheel, or on the parts to where it is fastened, can cause wheel nuts to become loose over time. The wheel may become detached and cause an accident.
Do not apply grease to the wheel mounting surface, wheel conical seats, or the wheel nuts or bolts. Grease applied to these parts can cause a wheel to become loose or come off, resulting in an accident.
Wheel Alignment and Balance
The wheels and tires on the vehicle are aligned and balanced to give the maximum tire life and overall performance. ﻿In most cases, the wheels and tires do not need alignment and balancing regularly. However, if any abnormal tire wear is observed or the vehicle starts pulling one way or towards one side, then alignment may be needed. Also, if the vehicle is vibrating when driving on a smooth road, the tires and wheels may need to be rebalanced.
Wheels may need to be aligned in following scenarios:
After replacing or repairing the tire in a collision accident.
Observed one-sided wear of front and rear tires.
If the wheels are shaking or the steering wheel is vibrating while driving at a high speeds.
When the vehicle pulls to the left or right, rather than going straight.
NOTE
Wheels and tires should be aligned by an approved VinFast Service Center.
CAUTION
Incorrect wheel alignment causes excessive tire wear and may impact vehicle safety.

## Vehicle Cleaning

Exterior Care
The exterior of the vehicle should be regularly cleaned to maintain the vehicle’s appearance and condition. More frequent cleaning is recommended if driving on roads that have had salt or antifreeze applied or when driving in coastal areas, as these can increase the risk of corrosion of the vehicle’s body and metal components.
Cleaning the vehicle also ensures good visibility through the windows and mirrors and provides others with a clear vision of the brake and indicator lights.
Cleaning Body Panels:
Before washing, check that all doors and windows are closed properly and remove any heavy deposits of mud and dirt with a hose. If hand washing, use a soft cloth with an approved and tested soap diluted in lukewarm water.
Wash the body of the vehicle with soapy water or non-corrosive mild gel detergents as necessary.
Rinse with clean water and dry thoroughly with a chamois or a soft microfiber towel.
Clean windows and mirrors using an approved automotive glass cleaner. Do not use any abrasive cleaning fluid on any of the surfaces.
Inspect for minor paintwork damage such as stone chips and get it rectified immediately to prevent the formation of rust.
CAUTION
Do not use petroleum based, or abrasive cleaning agents as they can damage the vehicle’s paint.
Have stubborn stains removed by a qualified workshop.
Improper vehicle cleaning can cause severe damage to the vehicle.
Do not wash the vehicle in direct sunlight.
When using high pressure washer, hold the nozzle at a sufficient distance away from the surface of the vehicle. Do not aim directly at parking sensors, cameras, body seals, cables or electronic modules.
Never aim a water jet directly at the doors, charging port door or the liftgate in cold weather, the components could freeze up.
Do not use excessively hard, abrasive cleaning tools.
Use water up to a maximum temperature of +60°C (+140°F) only.
Ensure the charging port door is closed prior to washing the vehicle. Do not spray high pressure water towards the charge port as it may result in damage to the charge port door or related charging equipment.
Do not place any stickers or magnetic signs on vehicle components painted with matte finish paint. The paint could get damaged when the stickers or magnets are removed.
WARNING
Incorrect care and cleaning of vehicle parts can impair the safety features of the vehicle and cause serious injury. Vehicle parts must be cleaned according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Always use approved or recommended cleaning products.
Vehicle cleaning products may be toxic and hazardous. Improper use of care products and incorrect application of care products can cause accidents, severe injuries, burns or poisoning.
Keep children away from all cleaning products.
Use care products only outside or in well-ventilated rooms so that you do not breathe in any toxic vapors.
Never use turpentine, nail varnish remover or other volatile fluids for vehicle cleaning. These substances are highly toxic and flammable.
Brake performance may get reduced after washing the vehicle. Test the brakes while driving slowly to see if they have been affected by water. If braking performance is impaired, dry the brakes by engaging them lightly while maintaining a slow speed.
Cleaning the Wheels:
The aluminum alloy wheels should be cleaned at the same time as the rest of the vehicle. After washing with the same solution, rinse thoroughly with water.
The wheels have a transparent protective layer (paint) to protect the aluminum from corrosion and rust. Using non-suitable cleaners (including some marketed wheel cleaners) or hard brushes can damage the coating.﻿ Only use a neutral cleaner and a soft brush or sponge to clean the wheels.
CAUTION
When driving on a rough road or driving off road, be careful not to damage the tires and wheels. After driving, inspect the tires and wheels.
When passing over a pothole, speed bump, manhole, or curb stone, drive the vehicle slowly so as not to damage the tires and wheels.
Cleaning Under body:
Regularly check the under body for build up of dirt, grime and debris that may lodge in unsuspecting areas.
From a safe distance, thoroughly flush the vehicle under body and wheel openings with lukewarm or cold water. Avoid using a high pressure hose when cleaning the under body. The High Voltage battery is sealed to prevent water intrusion.
If damage or corrosion are detected, have the vehicle inspected by a VinFast Service Center.
Keep the drain holes at the lower edges of the doors, rocker panels and frame members free from clogging with debris. Any trapped water inside these areas can cause them to corrode.
Wash the underside of the vehicle once road salts are stopped being used for the season.
WARNING
The vehicle must be cold, on a flat surface, in Park mode and handbrake should be applied when attempting to clean the under body of the vehicle.
Do not touch any orange high voltage cabling if cleaning the under body of the vehicle.
Always wear protective clothing when cleaning near sharp metal components, for example vehicle under body.
Automatic car washes:
It is safe to wash electric vehicles in automatic car washes. The equipment will not damage the electric motor or battery as they are sealed to prevent water intrusion.
It is recommended to use touch less automatic car washes as no contact is made to the exterior of the vehicle with rotating brushes that have the potential to damage the paintwork.
NOTE
Do not drive the vehicle through an automatic car wash that uses silicon carbide tire/wheel cleaning brushes. Damage could occur and the repairs would not be covered by the vehicle warranty.
CAUTION
In automatic car washes, fold the exterior mirrors so that they don’t get damaged.
Check and compare height and width of the car wash with the vehicle so that the vehicle doesn’t get damaged.
Car washes that scan the contours mechanically may damage the vehicle, e.g. spoiler.
Radar, Sensor, Camera Care
In order for the Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) to function properly, the cameras, radars, and sensors must be kept free of dirt, mud, ice, snow, etc and should be washed regularly with water and car washing detergent.
Obstructing the cameras, radars, and sensors can disable or cause limited functionality of the systems, and in some circumstances can show false warnings.
NOTE
If obstructed, a driver assistance warning message will appear on the infotainment display identifying that a camera, radar or sensor is blocked.
Warning messages are summarized as follows:
Windshield Camera Obstructed
Driver Monitoring Camera Obstructed
Left or Right Camera Obstructed
Front Left or Right Radar Obstructed
Front or Rear Parking Sensors Obstructed
Front or Rear Ultrasonic Sensors Obstructed
Front Camera Obstructed
Front Center Radar Obstructed
Rear Left or Right Radar Obstructed
Rear view Cameras Obstructed
Cleaning
Clear any dirt or grime build-up by wiping the components with a soft cloth and lukewarm water or by spraying water.
The advanced driver assistance systems will function normally after cleaning. If the warning message persists after the sensors and cameras, the system may be faulty. Please visit a VinFast Service Center to have the system inspected.
If any damage is evident on any of the components or their surrounding parts (bumper or windscreen), please visit a VinFast Service Center to have the issue rectified.
CAUTION
Do not clean sensors or cameras with abrasive objects or cleaners, that may damage its surface and can lead to reduced functionality.
Do not attempt to remove dirt, grime, debris, etc by wiping an exposed lens with your hands or a dry cloth. The lens can be damaged by debris rubbing against the lens surface while wiping.
Avoid aiming a high-pressure washer directly at the sensors or cameras, while washing the vehicle.
Do not install or apply objects, such as a bumper sticker, film or a bumper guard on or near the radars and sensors.
WARNING
Dirty or damaged radars, sensors or cameras may affect the performance of your advanced driver assistance systems.
In case the windscreen or radars have been replaced, they will require re-calibration. The re-calibration process must be performed by a trained VinFast technician for optimal functioning of ADAS.
Interior Care
Regularly clean the vehicle’s interior to prevent a build-up of dirt and dust that could cause premature degradation of the surfaces.
Wipe all surfaces down with a slightly damped microfiber cloth with approved interior cleaning products. Drying immediately will prevent streaks from remaining on the surface.
NOTE
Never allow water or other liquids to come in contact with electrical or electronic components inside the vehicle as this may damage them.
When cleaning leather products (steering wheel, seats etc) use neutral detergents or low alcohol content solutions. Avoid using high alcohol content solutions or alkaline detergents, as this may cause the color of the leather to fade or the surface may get stripped off.
CAUTION
Do not spray liquids directly onto the surface of switches and controls. Any fluid that leaks into the gaps around switches and controls can damage the electronics of the vehicle.
To prevent damage to interior surfaces, do not clean them with chemical solvents or strong detergents. Do not spray cleaners on any switches or controls.
Do not let water or other liquids to come in contact with electrical components inside the vehicle as it may result in damage. Never rub any surface aggressively or with too much pressure.
Cleaning Seats and Seat belts:
To prevent ingrained dirt and staining, clean the seat upholstery regularly. Wipe the seat surfaces down using a clean, dampened, non-colored cloth or vacuum with a soft brush attachment. Do not leave excessive water on the surface.
Fully extend the seat belts and clean them with a mild, non-abrasive soap and lukewarm water. After washing thoroughly, sponge the solution out of the belts. Do not allow the belts to retract until they are fully dry﻿.
Regularly inspect the seatbelt webbing for contamination, damage or fraying.
CAUTION
Do not use bleach, strong detergents or an abrasive brush or cloth to clean the seatbelt as it may damage and weaken the fabric.
Do not use steamers, brushes with hard bristles, hard sponges etc to clean the seats as this can damage the seats.
Do not bleach or re-dye the webbing because this may weaken the seat belt.
WARNING
Any damage identified on a seatbelt should be rectified immediately at a VinFast Service Center. Never use a damaged seatbelt. Do not allow passengers to ride in any area of the vehicle that is not equipped with seats and seat belts.
Do not allow any water, cleaning products or fabric from cloths to enter the seat belt mechanism. Any substance, which enters the mechanism, may affect the performance of the seat belt in an impact. Damage to the seat belt can greatly reduce its effectiveness in reducing the risk of serious injury or death in the event of an accident.
Never remove seat belts to clean them.
Airbag Maintenance:
No substance should be allowed to enter an airbag cover. This could have an impact on proper operation. Gently clean surfaces with a slightly dampened cloth.
WARNING
Any liquid or substance that enters the airbag mechanism may prevent its proper deployment during an impact. A compromised airbag system could result in serious injury or death in the event of an accident.
Cleaning Glass Windows:
Clean the interior glass surfaces regularly using an approved glass cleaner to provide a clear and unobstructed view.
Follow the directions as specified by the glass cleaner manufacturer.
CAUTION
Do not scrape or scratch the inside of the window glass. It could damage the thermal filaments and the antenna lines.
When washing the inside of the window glass, use a soft cloth dampened in lukewarm water, gently wiping the thermal filaments and the antenna lines.
Use of glass cleaning products could damage the thermal filaments and the antenna lines.
Cleaning Infotainment Touchscreen:
To remove marks, fingerprints and dust from the infotainment touchscreen use a high quality clean microfiber cloth. Do not use any chemical, household cleaning agents or abrasive materials as the screen surface may be affected. ﻿Turn the vehicle off to avoid activating any buttons.
CAUTION
Avoid spilling or splashing liquids onto the touchscreen. It may cause it to malfunction hindering its use.
Make sure the infotainment display is switched off and cooled down before cleaning.
When cleaning, make sure no liquids enter the space between the touchscreen display and panels as this could cause damage.
Cleaning Carpet and Floor Mat:
Regularly clean the carpet and floor mats. Remove any unwanted substances and objects that could interfere with operation of accelerator and brake pedals. ﻿Scrub with a weak solution of soap and warm water to remove unwanted ingrained dirt or stains. Replace the floor mats if they show signs of heavy wear.
WARNING
Unsecured or incorrectly positioned mats can interfere with the brake and accelerator pedal that could result in an accident leading to serious injury or death. After cleaning, correctly secure the mats before driving.
Never place a floor mat on top of another on the driver’s side.
Do not overlay additional mats or liners over the floor mats. If using All Weather mats, remove the carpeted floor mats before installing them. Only use floor mats designed to connect to the anchors.
Remove loose dirt particles with a vacuum cleaner on a regular basis so that the material is not permanently damaged by abrasion.

## Maintenance Schedule

Maintenance Schedule﻿ Overview
This section outlines the required maintenance for the vehicle.
To ensure economical and safe vehicle operation it is of vital importance that all maintenance work is carried out at the prescribed intervals by trained service technicians. It is recommended that this vehicle is maintained and repaired by Authorized VinFast Service Centers who will complete the scope of work as set out for the required tasks to sustain the road safety, road worthiness, operational reliability and the New Vehicle Limited Warranty.
It is the responsibility of the owner to have the required maintenance performed and to retain records. Depending on market and region, the vehicle may be programmed to provide service reminders in car and on the VinFast App leading up to the schedule interval.
WARNING
All technical service required to be performed on the vehicle should only be completed by trained and authorized personnel who are certified to work on electric vehicles.
Owners must not attempt to modify, alter or replace any high voltage components, cables or connectors in the vehicle. High Voltage cables are colored orange for easy identification.
A poorly maintained vehicle increases the risk to drivers, passengers and others on the road. If not maintained correctly, there is a danger of subsequent component damage or injury to individuals.
NOTE
The vehicle should not be modified in any way that could adversely affect its performance, safety or durability as it may violate conditions of the warranties covering the vehicle. For details, read the separate Warranty Information handbook provided with the vehicle.
Maintenance Schedule
Service Reminder (if available)
The owner will be reminded when a service is due, via a message that is displayed on the infotainment screen.
The notification that a Service Operation is due is determined by time since the last service and vehicle mileage.
If the message is dismissed three times it will not reappear.
Service Technicians will clear the service reminder when the service operation is complete.
Maintenance Schedule Notes
The High Voltage battery and E-motor cooling system fluid is to be replaced every 10 years or when the battery is replaced.
The Electric Drive Unit is sealed for life. No maintenance is required.
Additional Maintenance and Care
The cabin air filter may need replacement more frequently if driving in areas with high traffic, poor air quality or high dust levels. The filter may also need to be replaced if there is reduced airflow, window fogging or bad odors. See >   Fluids, Lubricants and Parts > Cabin Air Filter.
Regularly clean the interior and exterior of the vehicle to maintain the vehicle’s appearance and condition and to prevent premature degradation of the surfaces. See >   Maintenance > Vehicle Cleaning   for more information.
Regularly check and maintain the recommended the tire pressure to prevent premature wear. See >   Wheels and Tires > Tire Pressure  .
NOTE
If it is not possible to leave the vehicle plugged into the charger, it is recommended to use or charge the vehicle at least once a month.
The High Voltage battery does not require owner maintenance. For any concerns, please contact a VinFast Service Center.
The on-board diagnostic socket, located under the steering column may only be used by authorized persons at the service centre.
CAUTION
Do not allow the vehicle to sit idle for extended periods with a low charging state, otherwise it may not be possible to start or charge the vehicle and may also cause permanent damage to the battery.
Do not park or store the vehicle in areas which may flood, as flooding may damage the battery or other vehicle components.
Rodents can cause significant damage to your vehicle’s electrical wires, air lines and interior trim resulting in expensive repairs. Consequences of the damage may limit your vehicles functions such as, but not limited to, a no start condition or result in fluid leaks. Consider taking steps to discourage rodents such as repellent sprays. Any damage, or related component failures caused by rodents may void the New Vehicle Limited Warranty.

## Parts and Accessories

Parts
VinFast recommends using only genuine spare parts and accessories for its vehicles. They are specifically designed and tested for VinFast vehicles. Always use genuine parts and accessories and have them installed by a trained professional at a VinFast Service Center.
WARNING
Installing non-approved parts and accessories, or performing non-approved modifications, can affect the performance of the vehicle and the safety of its occupants.
Any damage caused by using or installing non-approved parts, or by performing non-approved modifications, is not covered by the warranty.
VinFast does not accept liability for any ramifications that occurs due to the use or installation of non-approved accessories or make non-approved modifications.
Spare Wheel (if equipped)
Spare Tire Information:
Tire Size
T145/80 R19
Manufacturer Company
Goodyear
Wheel Steel Type
14_80_R19_4BX19_ET43
The spare wheel is a different size to the standard road tires originally assembled on the vehicle.
It is located in the rear cargo compartment.
In the event of a flat tire, the spare wheel can be fitted temporarily until the original tire is replaced or repaired. For more information on wheels and tires.
See >   Wheels and Tires  .
For more information on how to remove a wheel and replace with the spare.
See > Vehicle Recovery >   Vehicle Jack & Tire Repair  .
Inflator Kit (if equipped)
The inflator kit allows the owner to plug and re inflate a punctured tire. The inflator kit has an inbuilt pressure gauge for monitoring tire pressure. It is powered 12v supply from auxiliary socket inside the vehicle. See >   Vehicle Recovery > Vehicle Jack and Tire Repair  .
Check the tire pressure placard on the door sill on the driver’s side before inflating tires. See >   Wheels and Tires > Tire Pressure  .
The Inflator Kit is stored in the rear cargo compartment.
Accessories
Genuine VinFast accessories are specifically designed, engineered and tested for this vehicle. To buy genuine VinFast accessories, visit the nearest VinFast Service Center or alternatively visit the VinFast Auto website.   https://vinfastauto.com/vn_vi
VinFast does not endorse any unauthorized third party products or accessories to be used on the vehicle. VinFast recommends only using genuine accessories.
NOTE
VinFast will not be responsible for performance, repair, replacement, damage, or any adverse effect on the vehicle caused by a third party accessory.
VinFast will only service genuine accessories fitted to the vehicle.
Accessories may vary depending on market region, car variant and availability of the product.
WARNING
Any parts, accessories, or modifications not approved by VinFast can adversely affect the performance and safety of the vehicle.
Any damage to the vehicle caused by the installation or modification of non approved parts is not covered by the warranty.
VinFast takes no responsibility for deaths, personal injuries, or damage that may result from the use of non approved accessories or modifications.
Parcel Shelf
The parcel shelf can be used to store small and light objects, located behind the rear back seats. The parcel shelf can also be removed if necessary.
See >   Storage > Rear Cargo Compartment.
CAUTION
Hinges and the dowels on the parcel shelf are not designed to carry heavy loads, do not apply excessive force while installing or removing the parcel shelf. Using excessive force can break or damage the parcel shelf.
WARNING
Do not keep heavy or hard objects on the parcel shelf, in an event of sudden braking, maneuvering, or an accident the objects could become airborne and strike an occupant and cause serious injury.
Roof rack
If available, the vehicle is equipped with roof rails.
When traveling with loads on the vehicle’s roof, make sure to travel with specialized accessories for carrying loads.
WARNING
Ensure that carrying loads on the roof of the vehicle complies with local regulations and load limits, see >   Weights  .
Floor Mats
Floor Mats are provided for the front and rear foot well areas. The floor mats provide a protective layer to the vehicle’s carpet.
CAUTION
Floor mats are specifically designed to fit the foot well of the vehicle, firmly secured to the carpet. Using non approved floor mats can lead to problems such as hindering pedal movement or range.
Always make sure that the floor mats are securely anchored.
WARNING
Never use additional mats, carpets or floor covers in driver’s foot well, as this can reduce the pedal movement or range and can impair pedal operation.

# Technical Specifications


## Fluids, Lubricants and Parts

Fluids, Lubricants and Parts Overview
Always supplement the fluids, lubricants and parts according to the type specified in this manual.
The Cabin Air Filter used in the climate control system of the vehicle is a common model.
The Refrigerant used in the AC system is R134a R1234yf.
The AC Compressor oil is type FVC56EA.
The Brake Fluid type is DOT 4.
The Battery and Motor Coolant is Anti-Freeze Pre-Mixed Coolant AF2100 (ASTM D3306) 50% glycol & 50% Water Mixture.
Transmission Fluid is CASTROL BOT352_B1 E-Car Axle Fluid.
The low volt battery used in this vehicle is a 12V lead-acid battery.
NOTE
For the recommended fluid, lubricant and part inspection and replacement frequency refer to the Maintenance Schedule.
See >   Maintenance Schedule > Maintenance Schedule Overview  .
WARNING
High Voltage and Air Conditioning servicing must be completed by authorized technicians.
It is recommended that the vehicle is serviced by a VinFast Service Center or authorized Service Center using genuine VinFast spare parts.
Use only VinFast approved DOT 4 brake fluid from a clean sealed container. Do not use fluid from an open container that may be contaminated which could result in damage to components, or braking loss causing serious injury in the event of an accident.
DOT 4 Brake Fluid is Toxic. Avoid contact with eyes and skin. Refer to safety instruction on fluid container for safe handling and recommendations if contact is made.
Coolant is toxic and can be fatal if swallowed. Prevent coolant from making contact with skin and eyes. If contact occurs, rinse immediately with plenty of water and seek medical attention if required.
Washer fluid can cause irritation to the eyes and skin. If contact occurs rinse immediately with water.
CAUTION
Using incorrect fluids, lubricants, parts may cause damage to the vehicle.
Brake fluid can damage electrical components, cables, wiring, headlamps, plastic components and painted surfaces if it comes in contact with these vehicle parts. Use rags and suitable containers to prevent fluid coming into contact with any vehicle parts. If brake fluid comes into contact with painted surfaces flush the area immediately with water.

## Vehicle Identification

Vehicle Identification Number
The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) is the legal identification mark of a vehicle.
It is the main identification number provided by VinFast, which is used to register the ownership of the vehicle.
The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) is located at the following locations:
On the cross-member under the passenger seat. To view lift the carpet flap  .
On the nameplate on the left hand side B-Pillar  .
On the lower left side of the windscreen frame  .
On the Touchscreen  . See >   Settings > About  .
Compliance Label
The manufacturer’s certification label (Compliance Label) is located on the left central pillar   (B-Pillar).
The following information is provided on the label:
Brand
Vehicle model
Date of manufacture
Name of manufacturer
Country of manufacture
Vehicle identification number (VIN)
Maximum allowable total mass
Number of passengers
WARNING
Never overload the vehicle. Vehicle overloading can cause the vehicle to loose control which increases the risk of an accident.
Overloading and high speeds can cause tires to overheat, resulting in a burst tire and loss of control.
Overloading can also impair stopping power, damage tires, and shorten the life of the vehicle.
Excessive loading can cause the tires to flex more which will heat up the tire too much. This can cause serious accidents. For more info on weights See >   Vehicle Information > Dimensions and Weights.
Vehicle License Plate
The front and rear license plates which are issued by the local authorities need to remain securely fixed to the vehicle, clearly visible from a distance and not obscured by any object at all times.
Under no circumstances should a license plate frame be attached to the perimeter of the plate. Doing so may obstruct the camera, radar or parking sensors affecting their functionality.

## Vehicle Information

Dimensions and Weights
The following tables contain key information and specifications relating to the vehicle. All data was accurate at the time of publication. Any changes made post release of this version will be updated on the online version of the owners manual.
NOTE
The vehicle specific data may deviate from these published figures depending on selected options and accessory fitment.
Exterior Dimensions
Item
Description
Measurement (mm)
Measurement (inch)
Vehicle Length
4750
187
Vehicle Height
1667
65.6
Vehicle Width
1934
76.1
Wheelbase
2950
116.1
Ground Clearance (No load)
175
(CATL Battery)
179
(SDI battery)
6.8
(CATL Battery)
7.0
(SDI battery)
Weights
CATL battery
Description
Variant
Weight (kg)
Curb Weight (AWD)
ECO
2455
PLUS
2520
Payload
ALL
450
Roof load
ALL
70
SDI battery
Description
Variant
Weight (kg)
Curb Weight (AWD)
ECO
2540
PLUS
2600
Payload
ALL
450
Roof load
ALL
70
Calculating Load Limits:
Locate the statement “The combined weight of occupants and cargo should never exceed XXX kg or XXX lbs.” on the vehicle’s placard.
Determine the combined weight of the driver and passengers that will be riding in the vehicle.
Subtract the combined weight of the driver and passengers from XXX kg or XXX lbs.
The resulting figure equals the available amount of cargo and luggage load capacity. For example, if the “XXX” amount equals 1400 lbs (635 kg) and there will be five 150 lbs (68 kg) passengers in the vehicle, the amount of available cargo and luggage load capacity is 650 lbs (295 kg) (1400 - 750 (5 × 150) = 650 lbs)/ (635 - 340(68 × 5) = 295 kg).
Determine the combined weight of luggage and cargo being loaded on the vehicle. That weight may not safely exceed the available cargo and luggage load capacity calculated in Step 4.
If the vehicle will be towing a trailer, load from the trailer will be transferred to the vehicle. Consult this manual to determine how this reduces the available cargo and luggage load capacity of the vehicle.
Driver Plus One Passenger
Description
Total Capacity (kg)
Total Capacity (lbs)
Payload
450
992
Occupant Weight (2 x (68 kg) or (150 lbs))
136
300
Available Cargo Weight
314
692
Driver Plus Four Passengers
Description
Total Capacity (kg)
Total Capacity (lbs)
Payload
450
992
Occupant Weight (5 x (68 kg) or (150 lbs))
340
750
Available Cargo Weight
110
242
Subsystems
Electric Motor
Description
Details
Type
3-Phase Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor
Cooling
Liquid Cooling
Operating Voltage (DC)
210-480V
Power
Motor x 2 (type 150kW)
Battery - High Voltage - SDI
Description
Details
Usable battery capacity
82 kWh
Nominal Voltage
~400 V
Cooling
Liquid Cooling
Battery - High Voltage - CATL
Description
Details
Usable battery capacity
87.7 kWh
Nominal Voltage
~402.8 V
Cooling
Liquid Cooling
Battery - 12V
Description
Details
Rating
45Ah
Voltage
12V
Brake System
Description
Details
General
Brake system hydraulic drive, electric booster
Front Brake
Ventilated disc brake
Rear Brake
Ventilated disc brake
Park Brake
Electronic
Steering System
Description
Details
Type
Electric Power Steering (EPS)
Minimum turning Circle diameter
12.4 (m) - 40.6 (ft)
Suspension System
Description
Details
Suspension - Front
Smart axle
Suspension - Rear
Control blade
Air Conditioning System
Description
Details
Refrigerant Type
R134a
Wheels and Tires
Wheel Specification (Factory Fitted)
There are different wheel sizes are available for the VF 8 depending on the variant:
Wheel Diameter
Location
Width
Offset
19”
Front/Rear
190.5 mm (17.5 in)
50 mm (19.6 in)
20”
Front/Rear
203.2 mm (8 in)
55 mm (2.16 in)
21” (if available)
Front/Rear
203.2 mm (8 in)
55 mm (2.16 in)
Tires Specification
Description
Details
Size
225/55 R19 (VF 8 ECO/S LUX)
245/45 R20 (VF 8 PLUS/LUX PLUS)
245/40 R21 (option)
Max Load
Front - 875 kg (1929 lbs)
Rear - 875 kg (1929 lbs)
Speed level
Front - 240 km/h (149 mph)
Rear - 240 km/h (149 mph)
Load index
Front - 103
Rear - 103
The recommended tire pressure is listed on the label attached to the driver’s door frame and is visible when the door is open. See >   Wheels and Tires > Tire Pressure  .
Spare Tire Specification (if equipped)
Description
Details
Size
T145/80 R19
WARNING
The use of any space saving spare tire is NOT recommended. If there is a problem with the tire or wheel, use the inflator kit (if equipped).  See >Vehicle Jack & Tire Repair  section or reach the roadside assistance service. If you need a spare tire, only utilize full size spare tire. Always drive carefully when driving with a spare tire. It is for temporary use only. Be aware that the handling performance may be affected when using spare tires.
Failure to follow this can lead to an accident, causing serious injury or death.
The recommended tire pressure is listed on the label attached to the driver’s door frame and is visible when the door is open. See >   Wheels and Tires > Tire Pressure  .
Tire Sidewall Labeling
Regulations stipulate that tire manufacturers are require to place standardized information on the sidewall of all tires. This information identifies and describes the fundamental characteristics of the tire and also provides a U.S. DOT Tire Identification Number (TIN) for safety standard certification and in case of a recall.
Tire Category: Tire marked P is for passenger vehicle.
Tire Width: The 3-digit number is the tire width (one sidewall edge to another).
Aspect Ratio: The 2-digit number indicates the tire’s sidewall height as a percentage of the tire’s width. (Example: If the tire size starts out as P205/55, than tire’s height is 55% of its width).
Tire Construction: Tire marked R indicates Radial ply construction.
Wheel Diameter: The 2-digit number is the diameter of the wheel or rim in inches.
Load Index: The 2 or 3 digit number indicates the weight a tire can support.
NOTE
Not all information may be available on all tires.
Speed Rating: The alphabet indicates the maximum speed at which a tire is designed to be driven for extended periods of time under a standard condition of load and inflation pressure.
Letter/Symbol
Maximum Speed (mph)
M
130 km/h (81 mph)
N
140 km/h (87 mph)
Q
160 km/h (99 mph)
R
170 km/h (106 mph)
S
180 km/h (112 mph)
T
190 km/h (118 mph)
U
200 km/h (124 mph)
H
210 km/h (130 mph)
V
240 km/h (149 mph)
W
270 km/h (168 mph)
Y
300 km/h (186 mph)
NOTE
In some cases, tire manufacturers use the letters ZR for tires with a maximum speed capability over 240 km/h (149 mph). For tires with a maximum speed capability over 299 kilometers per hour (186 miles per hour), the letter ZR is always used.
Load Range: Indicated by  SL  (Standard Load) or  XL  (Extra Load), the load range indicates the tire’s load-carrying capabilities and its inflation limits.
NOTE
Replace tires only with those of the same load range.
Tire Composition and Materials: Indicates the number of plies or the number of layers of rubber-coated fabric in the tire tread and sidewall. Additionally, tire manufacturers must indicate the materials in the tire and the sidewall, which can include steel, nylon, polyester, etc.
Maximum Load: Indicates the maximum load (in lbs & kg) which can be carried by the tire.
Maximum Permissible Inflation Pressure: Indicates the tire manufacturers’ maximum permissible air pressure for the tire. Do not exceed the maximum permissible inflation pressure.
NOTE
Refer to the Tire and Loading Information label for recommended inflation pressure.
U.S. DOT Tire Identification Number (TIN): Begins with the letters DOT and indicates that the tire meets all federal standards. The next two numbers or letters are the plant code designating where it was manufactured, the next two are the tire size code and the last four numbers represent the week and year the tire was manufactured.
Example: The number 1712 is used to represent the 17th week of 2012. The other numbers are marketing codes used at the manufacturer’s discretion. This information can be used to contact consumers if a tire defect requires a recall.
Tread wear Grade: This number indicates the tire’s wear rate. The higher the tread wear number, the longer it should take to wear down the tread.
Example: A tire rated at 400, for example, lasts twice as long as a tire rated at 200.
Traction Grade: Indicates a tire’s ability to stop on wet roads. The traction grades, from highest to lowest are AA, A, B, and C. A higher graded tire should allow the vehicle to stop at a shorter distance than a lower graded tire.
Temperature Grade: The temperature grades are A (the highest), B and C, representing the tire’s resistance to the generation of heat and its ability to dissipate heat. This grading is provided for a correctly inflated tire, which is being used within its speed and loading limits.
WARNING
Wear-out, uneven-wearing, damaged tires should be replaced as soon as possible. Worn tires can cause the vehicle to lose control, traction, and braking effectiveness.
Never exceed the maximum rated speed of the tires. This could cause a build up of heat resulting in a burst tire and loss of vehicle control.
Always keep an eye on the weather and road conditions while driving. Reduce the vehicle’s speed when driving on icy or slippery roads.
Always follow VinFast approved tire/rim combinations when replacements are required. Incorrect sizing of tires and wheels can result in unusual handling characteristics, poor vehicle control, or a negative impact on your vehicle’s Anti-Lock Brake System (ABS) resulting in a serious accident.
It is important to repair or replace a damaged tire as soon as possible as the spare tire is not designed for long term use.
When replacing tires, it’s recommended to replace the two front or two of the rear tires at once. Replacing only one tire on the vehicle could negatively affect its handling.
It is normal for tires to degrade over time, even when not being used. VinFast recommends replacing tires after six (6) years of normal service, regardless of the tread remaining.

# Vehicle Assistance


## Connected Services

Connected Services Overview
VinFast Connected Services technology offers various services to support the running of the vehicle and provides assistance when in need or in an emergency. Connected services include:
Service Booking
The owner of the vehicle can book an appointment at any VinFast Service Center for following services:
Scheduled maintenance
Accessory fitment
Body repair
Address any problems or alerts that have occurred
For more information See >   Service Booking Tool  .
Roadside Assistance
It is also possible to speak with roadside service professionals who can answer any query and explain how to correctly transport the vehicle if the need arises. Specialized roadside support is provided in the event of a vehicular emergency or breakdown.
For more information See >   Roadside Assistance  .
Emergency Call (e-Call)
Emergency Call or an e-Call is an automatically triggered call in the event of an accident or by request of the occupants.
For more information See >   Emergency Call (e-Call).
Remote Diagnostics
A VinFast Service Technician can connect to the vehicle remotely and access data to help with vehicle diagnosis.
For more information See >   Remote Diagnostics.
Remote Software Update
The owner can update the vehicle software wirelessly with over the air system updates without the need to visit a VinFast Service Center.
For more information See >   Remote Software Update.
NOTE
Connected car features are subject to acceptable cellular coverage, signal strength, battery power and cellular data availability to fulfill connected service request.
Service Booking
VinFast connected services provides a suitable process to book a service appointment from the comfort of your vehicle. Service booking may be scheduled by calling Customer Support.
To Book a Service appointment from Customer Support:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Tap on  Service     > Help Center   .
Tap on  Call icon   .
Roadside Assistance
In the unlikely event of a vehicle breakdown or an accident, specialized support is available through the local Roadside Assistance service providers to help get you going again.
To call Roadside assistance from Vehicle Alerts page:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Tap on  Service     > Vehicle Status > Alerts .
Tap on  Call Roadside Assistant  (if available).
To call Roadside assistance from Help Center:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Tap on  Service     > Help Center.
Select support form from  Customer Support  or  Third Party  (if available) > Tap to call.
WARNING
In the event of a minor accident, exit the vehicle if safe to do so, and stand clear until Roadside Support arrives. The trained personnel will isolate the vehicle from any dangers associated with the high voltage components.
eCall
What is eCall?
Emergency Call (eCall) is a connected service feature that connects the vehicle to Call Center in the event of a vehicle collision or an emergency situation. When an eCall is triggered, critical information about the vehicle status and location are automatically provided to the Call Center. This assists in ensuring the appropriate emergency response can be provided to the vehicle and it’s occupants.
How does eCall work?
eCall sử dụng mạng di động từ eSim của xe để gọi đến Tổng đài tiếp nhận, được kích hoạt tự động khi xe xảy ra va chạm mạnh hoặc khi người dùng kích hoạt thủ công.
Khi cuộc gọi được kết nối, tổng đài sẽ dựa vào những thông tin tự động chuyển từ xe cùng với thông tin bổ sung do người gọi cung cấp để xác định tình trạng khẩn cấp và liên lạc với các dịch vụ cứu hộ công cộng phù hợp.
eCall requirements
The system is only capable of operating in areas with a compatible cell phone network and emergency services infrastructure.
To activate eCall:
In serious emergency cases such as a severe accident triggering airbag deployment or activation of the front seatbelt pretensioners, etc., the eCall system can activate automatically﻿.
Press and hold the emergency call (SOS) button in the car to activate manually.
To manually activate eCall:
Emergency Call button is present on the front dome lamp.
Press and hold the SOS button   about 3 seconds until you hear the announcement ‘Emergency call activated’ and the entertainment screen show an pop-up of the emergency call.
Tap on Cancel   to cancel the call﻿ or ﻿press the SOS button again during the countdown
After a 5-second countdown, eCall will be activated, an alert sound will be played, and the screen will switch to an emergency call. Once activated, the emergency call can only be canceled by the call center.
If accidental activation of the eCall occurs, immediately cancel the request or advise the PSAP that it is an accidental call and no assistance is required.
If a standard phone call is active at the time the eCall is triggered, the active call will be terminated to allow the eCall to be placed. During the period when eCall is activated, the vehicle will not receive any incoming calls.
NOTE
eCall operates based on an eSim integrated with the vehicle, so the feature will not work if the eSim does not have a voice package or is out of coverage area. Customers need to purchase a voice package from a network provider to use eCall.
WARNING
Do not wait for eCall automatic assist when you can make it yourself. Press the Emergency Call button immediately to avoid delays that could increase the risk of serious injury or death after a crash.
Be careful when making a manual eCall while driving.
Remote Diagnostics
In order to assist in vehicle’s diagnosis, a VinFast Service technician may contact you to establish a Remote Diagnostic connection with your vehicle. The VinFast Service Technician will guide you through the process of connecting to your vehicle.﻿ User permission may need to be granted in order to allow remote diagnosis of the vehicle.
Preconditions to start Remote Diagnostics:
Vehicle ON (Driver present)
HV Battery charge level to be greater than 30%
12V battery voltage > 11.5V
Have an Internet connection
FOTA session must not be active
To Start Remote Diagnostics:
Tap  App Library    on the touchscreen.
Tap  Service     > Help Center   .
Call Hot line   and ask technician to start Remote Diagnostics.
Remote Diagnostics will be activated and a message will be displayed on the touchscreen.
Another message will pop up on the touchscreen after Remote Diagnostics is completed successfully.
To Stop Remote Diagnostics:
Tap  Remote Diagnostics    icon, on the status bar
Tap  Stop .
Remote diagnostics will stop and a pop-up message will be displayed on the Infotainment screen.
NOTE
Please ensure the vehicle remains powered ON and stationary at all times when a Remote Diagnostic session is active.
Remote Software Update
VinFast recommends updating the vehicle’s software whenever new updates are available. This will ensure the vehicle contains the latest features, functionality, and quality improvements.﻿ Vehicle software will be updated via Firmware Over the Air (FOTA).
Firmware Over the Air (FOTA) is a mechanism for the manufacturer to deliver software, firmware, and configuration settings to vehicles and transmits software wirelessly between the VinFast Cloud and the vehicle securely.
To check for new updates﻿:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.﻿
Tap  Settings     > Abou t    > Firmware   .﻿
Available update will be shown on the screen  .
NOTE
Notification is displayed on Infotainment screen whenever a new update is available. A notification will be added to the Notifications Page.
To download an update automatically:
Automatic Download via Wi-Fi:  The vehicle will automatically download updates over Wi-Fi if it is connected to a Wi-Fi network. There will be no prompt or confirmation presented to the user during that time. Enable or disable through respective toggle button.
Automatic Download via Cellular Data:  The car will switch to cellular data to download updates if Wi-Fi is not available. There will be no prompt or confirmation presented to the user during that time. Enable or disable through respective toggle button.
To download an update manually:
Download an update manually by any of the following methods:
Via notification card
Via About settings
To download an update manually by about settings:
In the  Firmware  tab, tap  Download .
OR
Tap  What’s New .
Tap  Download .
The system will start downloading and will show the size of update and time remaining for completion of the update.
To Pause or Stop downloading:
After the download has started, tap  Pause  or  Stop .
NOTE
You can see the current download status on the status bar.
To install an update:
Once the downloading of an update is completed, tap  Install .
Read the terms and conditions carefully.
Agree the terms and conditions by tapping on checkbox.
Tap  Agree and Start Install .
After successful installation, a “New firmware installed” notification is displayed on the Infotainment screen.
Installation failure
In the event the FOTA fails to install due to an error, follow the on-screen instructions to rectify the problem.

## Vehicle Recovery

Vehicle Jack & Tire Repair
In unfortunate circumstances when you happen to get a flat or punctured tire, it can be temporarily repaired or replaced by using the tire inflation kit (if equipped), or by fitting the spare tire (if equipped). Otherwise you need to call Road side assistance.
NOTE
Diving with damaged tires can affect the handling and stopping performance of the vehicle.
Flat Tire Repair with Inflation Kit (if equipped)
The vehicle may be fitted with tire repair fluid and a compressor kit. The tire inflation kit will allow you to stay mobile after experiencing a tire puncture for a short period of time.﻿ Please follow instructions below:
WARNING
Do not use the inflation kit to repair any damage to the tires side walls.
For safe operation, please read the instruction label located on the inflater bottle.
The damaged or punctured tire should be repaired or replaced as soon as possible.
NOTE
The inflation kit can only be used on one flat tire.
The inflation kit fluid is effective for repairing punctures with a diameter of less than 6mm. Within this range, the puncture objects can be removed from the tire in order to repair it. If the puncture holes are large, do not remove the puncture objects after filling the tire with the repair fluid.
First remove tire valve cap.
If necessary, remove the puncture object and perform repair operation. Move the punctured area to the 6‘clock position before proceeding.
Tighten the connecting valve of the tire repair fluid bottle to the tire valve. When using the product at temperature of (-40°C to 0 °C), warm the product to a temperature above 0°C, to improve the filling efficiency.
Remove the cap from the end of the sealant bottle.
Unravel the air hose from the back of the compressor.
Screw the compressor hose onto sealant bottle.
Unravel the compressor wiring and connect to the auxiliary socket inside the vehicle in the rear luggage compartment.
Keep the vehicle ON.
Switch ON the compressor by pressing the button present on the compressor.
It should take no longer that 10min to reach an acceptable inflation pressure.
Once the tire pressure reaches an acceptable level as stated on the tire pressure placard (See >   Wheels and Tires > Tire Pressure  ), press the yellow button on the compressor to test the tire pressure. The tire should hold minimum pressure listed on tire pressure placard. If not the contact recovery services.
Reinstall the valve cap on the tire.
Return the tire inflation kit back to the vehicle rear cargo compartment.
After fully inflating the tire, drive immediately for at least 10 km
(6.2 miles) at speeds less than 80 km/h (50 mph), so that the product can become evenly distributed. If tire remains fully inflated after this distance, then normal driving speed can be resumed.
After driving for 10 km (6.2 miles) stop and re-examine the tire, if it appears damaged then roadside assistance must be contacted. If it is OK then reinflate the tire to the proper pressure listed in the placard.
Go to a professional tire repair shop as soon as possible. However, do not exceed a distance of 500 km (310 miles) without having the tire repaired professionally.
If at any time after using this product the tire loses pressure, stop driving and call roadside assistance.
NOTE
Do not drive the vehicle above the indicated maximum speed shown on the spare wheel.
Accelerate, brake and corner gently.
It is recommended to visit a VinFast Service Center as soon as possible.
WARNING
If the tire repair fluid is splashed on the tire or rim during use, rinse with water or wipe with a cloth. If it gets in your eyes, rinse immediately with water and consult a doctor.
Do not drive with a punctured tire that has not been repaired, even if the puncture has not caused the tire to deflate. A punctured tire can deflate suddenly at any time leading to mishandling of the vehicle or accident to occur.
Store the inflation kit at temperature between -40°C to 85°C. Keep it away from any open flames.
Spare Tire Replacement (if equipped)
To Remove Spare Tire:
Lift the Rear cargo floor cover by pulling up on the strap  .
Unscrew the wheel retainer  .
Remove the spare wheel   from the stowage well.
NOTE
Put the flat tire somewhere handy, so that the flat tire can be replaced/ repaired.
CAUTION
The spare tire provided with the vehicle is for temporary use only. Do not use the spare tire for continuous driving.
Do not drive the vehicle above the indicated maximum speed shown on the spare wheel.
WARNING
The use of any space saving spare tire is NOT recommended. If there is a problem with the tire or wheel, use the inflator kit (if equipped).  See >Vehicle Jack & Tire Repair  section or reach the roadside assistance service. If you need a spare tire, only utilize full size spare tire. Always drive carefully when driving with a spare tire. It is for temporary use only. Be aware that the handling performance may be affected when using spare tires.
Failure to follow this can lead to an accident, causing serious injury or death.
When driving with the spare tire, drive slowly, avoid sharp cornering, avoid sudden acceleration, abrupt maneuvering, and sudden braking to ensure safety of the driver and the passengers.
The spare tire is not designed for driving at high speeds. Failure to observe this precaution may lead to an accident causing death or serious injury.
To fit the Spare Tire:
Ensure the vehicle is in a safe location that does not affect normal traffic and work can be undertaken safely. Place the vehicle in Park(P), turn off the vehicle, and engage the parking brake. If needed setup the warning triangles and turn on the hazard lights.
Remove the lifting jack, jack-handle crank and take out the spare tire, which are all located in the rear luggage compartment under the luggage stowage cover in the vehicle.
Loosen the wheel nuts: Use the wheel nut wrench   to turn the wheel nuts to the left (anti clockwise direction) until they can be turned by hand. Do not remove the wheels nuts entirely at this stage.
Search the underside of the vehicle to find the jacking points closest to the wheel that needs to be replaced.
Place the jack under the lifting position of the body.
Match the socket on the jack-handle crank with the hexagonal nut on the jack.
Raise the car body with a jack. Turn the combination tool to the right (clockwise direction) to raise the vehicle until the tire is clear of the road.  Note:  The spare tire diameter may be larger than the flat tire currently fitted.
Remove the wheel nuts: Remove all wheel nuts entirely then remove the wheel and tire assembly.
Install the spare tire. Before installing the spare tire, wipe off the dirt on the wheel mounting surface and the brake hub with a clean cloth.
Make sure the holes on spare tire line up with the holes on the hub.
Temporarily fix the wheel nuts. Fit all five wheel nuts and torque by hand until snug. This will prevent the tire from falling. Remove dirt and foreign matter from the screw parts of the wheel mounting bolts and nuts.
Rotate the jack handle in a anticlockwise direction to lower the vehicle to the ground.
Tighten the wheel nuts. Use the wheel nut wrench to turn the wheel nuts to the right (clockwise direction)   according to the order indicated in the figure shown above. Double check each wheel nut. Tightening torque: 110±10N·m.
Check tire pressure. If tire pressure is too high or too low, drive slowly to the nearest service station and adjust them to the recommended pressures. Be sure to replace the valve cap after checking tire pressures to avoid any air leaks from occurring.
Return the jack and tools to the vehicle rear compartment.
WARNING
Do not exceed the vehicles maximum load carrying capacity when using a spare tire.
Do not use a compact spare tire for long periods. Replace or repair the original tire as soon as possible.
Before jacking up the vehicle ensure that all passengers have safely exited the vehicle.
Make sure the jack is stable. Always jack up the car where the surface is firm and leveled.
Position the jack only at the designated jacking points on the vehicle. Failure to do so may cause the jack to slip and cause serious injuries.
No work should be done under the vehicle when it is raised.
Only use factory provided jack to lift the vehicle.
Never put any object or any part of the body under the vehicle when using the jack.
Do not touch the disc brakes or the areas around the brakes as they can be extremely hot.
Jump-starting
If the 12V battery is depleted, you can jump start the battery using another vehicle or using a low voltage power supply such as a portable jump starter.﻿ If jump starting using another vehicle follow that vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
NOTE
Always ensure that only 12V source is used to jump start the battery.
WARNING
Always read and follow instructions when handling a battery to avoid serious injury or death.
Wear correct personal protective equipment (PPE) when handling the battery. Failure in following the warning can cause serious injury or death.
Keep all forms of smoke, flames and sparks away from the battery at all times. Failure in following the warning can cause serious injury or death.
Do not allow the jumper cables to make contact with each other or any metal surface other than the correct terminals.
Ensure your vehicle is not connected to a high voltage charger when performing a jump-start. Failure to do so can cause serious injury or death.
Batteries contain sulfuric acid, avoid contact with eyes, skin or clothing. Failure to do so may result in serious injury or death.
Hydrogen is present in battery cells, which can ignite. Keep away from flames.
The vehicle should not be used to jump start another vehicle as this could cause significant damage to your vehicle.
Do not try to jump start your vehicle if the outside temperatures are extremely low.
Connecting the jumper cables incorrectly can cause damage to the vehicle and potentially lead to a fire or explosion.
If your vehicle has no 12 volt power, proceed with the following:
Ensure the vehicle is Off and in Park (P).
Open the hood See   > Front and Rear Compartments > Front Hood
Open battery cover  .
Locate the 12V battery.
Connect the red jumper cable to the positive (+) battery terminal of your vehicle.
Connect the other end of the red jumper cable to the positive (+) battery terminal of the assisting vehicle.
Connect the black jumper cable to the negative (-) battery terminal of the assisting vehicle.
Connect the other end of black jumper cable to the negative (-) battery terminal to your vehicle.
Start the assisting vehicle first, and then proceed to power on your vehicle.
NOTE
If your vehicle does not start, please contact roadside assistance or have the vehicle checked by authorized VinFast dealer.
For safe battery disposal please refer to your countries battery disposal and recycling laws.
Disconnecting jumper cables process:
Disconnect black jumper cable from the negative (-) terminal from your vehicle.
Disconnect the other end of the black negative (-) jumper cable from the assisting vehicle.
Disconnect the red jumper cable from the positive (+) terminal from assisting vehicle.
Disconnect the other end of the red jumper cable from the positive (+) terminal from your vehicle.
Towing (EV)
If the vehicle breaks down and towing is necessary, it is recommended to have it done by a professional towing service. When towing, all four wheels must not be in contact with the ground, as the spinning wheels enable the Regenerative Braking System to generate electricity, which cannot be managed correctly while the vehicle is turned off. This may lead to over-heating of the system components.
CAUTION
Never transport the vehicle using any method that is not prescribed by VinFast.
WARNING
Do not use your vehicle to tow another vehicle.
If the vehicle has an electrical fault, it may pose a safety hazard. Seek professional assistance immediately and keep away from the vehicle.
Never transport the vehicle with the wheels in a position where they can spin. Doing so can lead to significant damage and overheating. In rare cases of extreme overheating may cause the surrounding components to ignite.
Preparing Vehicle to be Towed
The vehicle has a tow eye attachment point in the front and rear bumpers of the vehicle. A tow eye is provided with the vehicle and it is stored in the tool box in the rear cargo compartment.
Before towing make sure to disengage the parking brake, put in neutral.
CAUTION
In order to transport the vehicle, self-loading dollies or tire skates should be used.
WARNING
The vehicle is equipped with high voltage components (See >   High Voltage Components  ) that may be damaged in the event of a collision. It is important to assume these components are energized prior to transporting the vehicle.
Always follow high voltage safety precautions (wearing protective gear, etc) until emergency response professionals have evaluated the vehicle and have confirmed that all high voltage systems are no longer operational. Failure to do so may result in serious injury.
EPB Disengaged
To disengage Electronic Parking Brake (EPB) depress the brake pedal and push the EPB switch.
Using the ﻿Tow Eye/Hook﻿:
Open the liftgate and raise the cargo floor cover from the tab. The tow eye is located under the rear storage floor compartment.
How to fit Front Tow eye
Locate the tow eye cover in the front bumper and push at the top to release.
Remove the hole cover   to access the attachment point.
Install the tow eye   to the attachment point by turning it clockwise into the hole until it is fully secured.
Remove the towing hook (rotate anti-clock wise) and install the cover after use.
How to fit Rear Tow eye
Remove the hole cover in the bumper   to access the attachment point. A tool may be required to Push the side of the cover in order to remove it.﻿
Install the tow eye   to the attachment point by turning it clockwise into the hole until it is fully secured.
Remove the towing hook (rotate anti-clock wise) and install the cover after use.
CAUTION
Before pulling the vehicle, make sure the tow eye/hook is securely tightened.
Approved Towing Methods
VinFast recommends getting professional help for towing and following the correct towing procedure to prevent damage to the vehicle﻿.
A flatbed truck or similar recovery vehicle is recommended when transporting the vehicle.
Follow the tow eye attachment instruction described above prior to winching the vehicle. Attach the winch cable to the tow eye/hook. Put the vehicle in Neutral (N), disengage the EPB. Pull the vehicle slowly onto the flatbed truck.
The vehicles wheels must be tied down using the eight-point tie down method, to ensure the vehicle is secured properly to the truck bed.
CAUTION
Securing the tie-down straps to the chassis, suspension or other parts of the vehicle’s body may cause damage to the vehicle.
Metal parts of the tie down can damage paint and other finishing on the vehicle, avoid such contacts.
Do not place tie-down straps over the vehicle’s body or through the wheels.
If the vehicle cannot be transported in a flatbed truck, then wheel lifts and dollies must be used to ensure that all four wheels are off of the ground. The vehicle can be towed facing either way, but it is recommended to tow the vehicle facing forward so that the front wheels are lifted and the rear wheels are on dollies. This method may only be used for a maximum of 55 km (35 miles), and must not exceed the manufacturer speed rating of the dollies.
Follow the steps as recommended by the professional to load the vehicle on the dolly and wheel lift. Secure the vehicle’s wheels using eight-point tie-down method.

## Contact

VinFast Customer Care
VinFast Customer Care representatives are available Monday to Sunday 24 hours a day to assist with any of your vehicle needs. ﻿They can be contacted on:
VinFast Customer Care:
Vietnam: 1900 23 23 89

# Additional Information


## Reference

Data Storage and Processing
Your vehicle is fitted with electronic control units. Data is processed and generated by control units based on inputs from sensors. Your vehicle’s control units are used to keep the vehicle safe, support you while driving (driver assistance systems), and to enable convenience and infotainment functions.
In certain circumstances, the data generated or processed by control units can be considered personal data under the law. Depending on the vehicle data available, this data may reveal information about your driving behavior, your location, or your route, as well as your usage patterns.
Within your infotainment screen, you can also configure how VinFast Connected Services transmit your data and location.
To configure privacy settings:
Tap on your profile name on the status bar > My Profile > Privacy Settings
International personal data transfer
VinFast has offices in Vietnam, Europe, United States and some other countries and regions in the world. Depending on your use of VinFast Products, your personal information may be transferred and/or stored in or accessed from multiple countries, including but not limited to Vietnam, Europe, United States, Singapore and other locations where we or our service providers maintain servers with relevant contractual clauses to protect such transfers.
rights for VinFast Connected Services or for activities where VinFast is the data controller
Your personal data is processed according to applicable data protection law.
VinFast may be required to provide data gathered by VinFast to government agencies according to legal requirements, such as police investigations of criminal offenses.
A government agency may also require access to data from vehicles themselves in individual cases under applicable law. For example, if there is an accident, the airbag control unit may help clarify the situation by providing information.
If you believe your rights have been infringed as a result of the processing of your personal data, you have a right to lodge a complaint with the competent data protection authority.
Data Privacy
We place a high priority on protecting your data privacy. Details about how we manage your data can be found in our Privacy Policy. For requests to manage your data, including requests to delete your data, please refer to our DSR form.

## VinFast eStore

VinFast eStore Overview (SOTA)
VinFast eStore (also known as VF eStore) is a smart connectivity platform integrated into VinFast’s electric vehicles. This system creates a technological ecosystem that allows users to easily interact with their vehicles through a mobile app and internet connectivity.
VinFast eStore enables you to:
Manage and monitor your vehicle
Control your vehicle remotely
Use smart features and in-car entertainment services
VinFast eStore Packages
Basic: Free plan with essential features
Pro: Adds remote control and security features
Premium: Expands entertainment options and personalization
Prime: The most advanced plan, including in-car internet/Wi-Fi
For more details about VinFast eStore, please visit:   VinFast eStore | VinFast
Remote Control
The remote vehicle control feature allows users to manage and operate their vehicle anytime, anywhere via a smartphone. You can monitor vehicle status, perform actions such as locking/unlocking doors, turning on the air conditioning, and receive security alerts quickly and conveniently.
Usage Requirements
Customers need to activate a VF eStore package that supports remote control (Upper/Pro, Premium, Prime, etc.).
For details:   VinFast eStore | VinFast
Users must download the VinFast app and update it to the latest version. To download the VinFast App, please scan the QR code below:
Androi
IOS
The vehicle must be updated to the latest FRS version with VF eStore available.
How It Works
After activating the VF eStore package on the vehicle
Users can control certain vehicle functions through the VinFast mobile app.
Key Features
Remote Control
Users can remotely control the following features (*):
Lock/Unlock the car
Open the trunk
Open the windows
Control the air conditioning
Turn on lights
Activate the horn
Camp mode
(*) Note: Features may vary depending on the vehicle model.
Notifications
Anti-theft alerts: Similar to the VinFast app. If the vehicle shows signs of movement or unauthorized access, the smartwatch will notify the driver.
Vehicle notifications: Users receive basic notifications and vehicle status updates similar to those in the VinFast app.
Additionally, users receive updates about charging status, battery information, and remaining driving range.
Smartwatch Usage Guide
The Smartwatch feature allows users to conveniently control and monitor their vehicle directly from their smartwatch. It enables basic operations without needing to use their phone (if the vehicle supports it), such as: locking/unlocking the car, opening the trunk, turning on the air conditioning, lights, horn, etc. It also provides important notifications and alerts from the vehicle (anti-theft, vehicle status, battery level, remaining range, etc.).
Usage Requirements
Customers must activate the VF eStore package that supports remote control features on the vehicle (Upper/Pro, Premium, Prime, etc.).
Supported operating systems: Wear OS and watchOS.
The smartwatch must be connected to the phone via Bluetooth before use.
Users need to download the VinFast app and update it to the latest version.
The vehicle must be updated to the latest FRS version with VF eStore available.
Users should wear the smartwatch to enable features and receive notifications.
How It Works
After activating the VF eStore package on the vehicle.
Connect the phone to the smartwatch via Bluetooth.
For Wear OS, download the VinFast app from the supported app store.
Check the VinFast app—if the status shows “Connected,” the smartwatch can now be used to control the vehicle.
Recommended distance for the smartwatch to receive signals from the vehicle: less than 10 meters.
Key Features
Remote Control
Users can remotely control the following features (*):
Lock/Unlock the car
Open the trunk
Open the windows
Control the air conditioning
Turn on lights
Activate the horn
Camp mode
(*) Note: Features may vary depending on the vehicle model.
Notifications
Anti-theft alerts: Similar to the VinFast app. If the vehicle shows signs of movement or unauthorized access, the smartwatch will notify the driver.
Vehicle notifications: Users receive basic notifications and vehicle status updates similar to those in the VinFast app.
Additionally, users receive updates about charging status, battery information, and remaining driving range.
App Store (Application Marketplace)
The in-vehicle app store allows users to download and use additional entertainment and utility applications directly on the central display. This helps enhance the overall in-car user experience.
Common applications include:
Watching movies
Listening to music
Playing games
Other utility apps
Usage requirements:
Customers must activate a VF eStore service package that supports (such as Premium, Prime packages, etc.) in order to use the app store.
Nap Mode (If available)
This feature is to provide users a relaxing and energy-restoring short sleep experience. When activated, Nap mode optimizes the car’s interior environment by adjusting various system such as seat, ambient lighting, climate control and sound insulation to create an ideal atmosphere for a quick nap
Activation
Nap mode can be activated by using:
Car mode on the infotainment
VF eStore Premium/Prime
Preconditions for nap mode activation:
The vehicle is not in ACC/OFF state.
Gear Park (P) is selected.
All doors are closed.
Parking brake is applied.
Battery level is greater than 30 percent.
High-voltage battery is in normal state.
Air conditioner is in normal state.
To activate Nap Mode on the infotainment:
Tap Car mode on the Infotainment Screen.
From vehicle mode selection list, tap Nap Mode .
Configure Nap duration, Sound.
Tap Start Nap Mode
To configure nap duration:
Go to Car mode > Nap mode > Nap duration
Select 15/ 20/ 30/ 45/ 60 (min)
To configure sound during nap:
Go to Car mode > Nap mode > Sound
Select None/ White noise/ Pink noise.
When activated, Nap Mode shall take actions as belows:
Close all windows for safety.
Air conditioner recirculation is set to inside. Every 15 minutes, circulation is switched to outside for 5 minutes and reverted back to inside afterwards.
Temperature is set to 22 Celcius degree linearly from current value in 5 minutes.
Fan speed is set to level 1 after 10 minutes.
Reduce notification sound.
Keep playing media or play noise depends on settings.
Automatically decrease the media volume gradually over time to 5 percent in 15 minutes.
Turn off dome light.
Keep the infotainment screen’s brightness in 10 seconds, then dim brightness to 5 percent in 15 seconds.
NOTE
If users actively change media volume, the automatic media volume adjustment process shall be canceled.
If users actively change climate, the automatic climate adjustment process shall be canceled.
Whenever user touches the screen, infotainment screen brightness shall be restored to the value before activating Nap mode.
If screen brightness received any changes, the infotainment shall set it as starting value for Nap mode.
User profile can not be switched when Nap mode is activated.
Deactivation
To deactivate/exit Nap Mode manually:
Tap Exit Nap Mode widget on the Infotainment screen.
Conditions to deactivate Nap Mode automatically:
Time out for Nap mode.
Battery level falls below 20 percent.
Air conditioner is malfunction.
High-voltage system is malfunction.
Gear is shifted out of Park (P).
Any door is opened.
When deactivated, Nap mode shall take actions as belows:
Raise an alarm to wake user up when Nap mode is deactivated automatically.
Undone scheduled tasks are cancelled.
Restore infotainment screen brightness to the value before activating Nap mode.
Stop playing white noise if playing.
Turn OFF Reduce Chime mode.
Climate will be kept as current.
Smart Assistant (Vivi 3.0)
The Smart Assistant is one of the features of VF eStore, delivering a smart, convenient, and personalized interaction experience for users. With its ability to understand and respond flexibly, the assistant makes vehicle usage easier and more modern.
Usage Requirements:
Customers must activate a VF eStore service package that supports Smart Assistant features to use this functionality.
The vehicle must have a stable Internet connection (Wi-Fi or mobile data).
Key Features:
Proactive assistance: Provides reminders and suggestions based on user habits, context, and preferences.
Advanced vehicle control: Enables natural, fast, and accurate interaction with the vehicle.
Personalized experience: Supports voice recognition and allows customization based on individual user needs.
VietMap Live
VietMap Live is an intelligent navigation application optimized specifically for VinFast vehicles, helping users travel more conveniently, safely, and efficiently with continuously updated traffic data.
Feature Overview
Real-time traffic updates
Warnings for traffic cameras and traffic violation fines
Route optimization based on driving conditions
Integration with VinFast ecosystem and charging stations
Voice control support via the Smart Assistant
Usage Requirements
The vehicle must have an active VF eStore service package
The infotainment system must be functioning properly
The vehicle must have a stable Internet connection (Wi-Fi or mobile data)
The VietMap Live application must be installed on the vehicle
How to Open VietMap Live
Go to the App Library on the central display
Select VietMap Live
Tap Open to start using the application
For more details about VietMap Live, please refer to the official VietMap website.
Battery Care
Battery Care is a feature within the VF eStore smart services suite that helps users monitor battery health and identify usage behaviors that may affect the lifespan of an electric vehicle battery.
By analyzing real-world vehicle operating data, the feature provides detailed insights into battery status, charging behavior, driving behavior, and parking behavior. This enables users to proactively adjust their usage habits and perform battery maintenance or warranty services when necessary.
Key feature:
Monitor battery operating parameters and health status.
Detect behaviors that may reduce battery lifespan.
Identify early signs of battery abnormalities.
Adjust usage habits to optimize battery performance and longevity.
Reduce maintenance, repair, and battery replacement costs throughout vehicle ownership.
Usage Requirements
To use this feature, users must ensure that:
The vehicle has been updated to the latest FRS version.
The VinFast App has been updated to the latest version.
A Smart Connect Upper/Pro/Premium/Prime service package within the VF eStore smart services ecosystem has been activated.
Data sharing (Data Privacy) has been enabled on the vehicle.
User Guide
Accessing the Feature
Open the VinFast App.
Select Battery Care from the home screen.
Monitoring Battery Parameters
On the overview screen, users can monitor battery-related information, including:
Battery temperature.
Ambient temperature.
Battery technical specifications, such as:
Battery cell type.
Battery manufacturer.
Internal resistance.
Battery current.
Other technical parameters.
For each parameter, users can tap the (!) icon to view:
An explanation of the parameter.
Safe operating thresholds.
Warning thresholds that require attention.
Recommended maintenance and usage practices.
Monitoring Charging Behavior
Under the Charging Behavior section, users can view statistics related to charging habits that may affect battery lifespan, including:
requency of AC charging and DC charging.
Frequency of charging when the battery level is below 20%.
Frequency of charging when the battery level is above 80%.
Detailed information about the most recent charging session.
These insights help users identify and adjust suboptimal charging habits to extend battery lifespan.
Monitoring Driving and Parking Behavior
Under the Driving & Parking Behavior section, users can review vehicle operating habits that may impact battery health, including:
Frequency of aggressive acceleration.
Frequency of hard braking.
Frequency of parking the vehicle with a battery level below 10%.
Frequency of parking the vehicle with a battery level above 90%.
Frequency of parking the vehicle in environments with temperatures above 40°C.
These statistics help users better understand how their driving and parking habits affect battery longevity and make appropriate adjustments.
Monitoring Alerts and Recommendations
The system displays alerts or recommendations when it detects:
Battery parameters exceeding recommended thresholds.
Non-optimal charging behavior.
Driving or parking habits that may negatively impact battery lifespan.
Users are encouraged to follow the system’s recommendations to maintain battery performance and maximize battery lifespan throughout vehicle use.
Safe Driving
Feature Description
Safe Driving is a feature within the Safe Driving solution suite on the VinFast App that helps users monitor, evaluate, and improve their driving habits through a driving behavior scoring system.
The system analyzes vehicle operation data and evaluates driving safety based on seven key driving behaviors:
Hard braking
Aggressive steering
Following too closely
Speeding
Night driving
Autopilot forced disengagement
Not wearing a seat belt
Based on the collected data, the system calculates a driving score, provides historical performance records, and offers recommendations to help users develop safer driving habits.
This feature is currently supported on VinFast commercial vehicle models capable of providing vehicle operation data to the VinFast App.
Usage Requirements
To use this feature, users must ensure that:
The vehicle has been updated to the latest FRS version.
The VinFast App has been updated to the latest version.
Data sharing (Data Privacy) has been enabled on the vehicle so that the system can collect and analyze driving data.
User Guide
Accessing the Feature
Open the VinFast App.
Select Safe Driving.
Access the Safe Driving screen.
Viewing the Overall Driving Score
The overview screen displays:
An average driving score on a 100-point scale.
A score calculated based on the evaluation results of the seven driving behaviors.
A safety rating indicator classified into the following levels:
Dangerous
Average
Safe
Viewing Score History
Users can review their driving score history by:
Week
Month
Year
Historical data helps users assess trends in improving or changing driving behaviors over time.
Viewing Detailed Driving Behaviors
Under the Behavior section, users can view:
Scores for each driving behavior.
The number of corresponding violations.
Statistical charts over time.
The monitored driving behaviors include:
Hard braking
Aggressive steering
Following too closely
Speeding
Night driving
Autopilot forced disengagement
Not wearing a seat belt
Reviewing Safe Driving Recommendations
Under the Behavior section, the system provides personalized recommendations and safe driving guidance based on actual driving performance.
These recommendations help users:
Reduce the frequency of risky driving behaviors.
Improve their driving score.
Develop safer and more efficient driving habits.