============================================================
VINFAST OWNER MANUAL (HƯỚNG DẪN SỬ DỤNG SẢN PHẨM XE VINFAST)
Car Model: VF3
Version: 2024
Language: EN
Source URL: https://om.vinfastauto.com/
============================================================


# Introduction


## Owner Manual

Introduction
Congratulations and thank you for choosing the VinFast VF 3.
This Owner’s Manual describes all the features and operations of your new VinFast vehicle and contains important maintenance and safety related information designed to keep you safe. Information will be updated continuously throughout the customer’s vehicle usage.
The information contained in this manual is specific to your vehicle, but certain features, functions, and display instructions may not be applicable, depending on your market region or the software version of the vehicle.
The content in the manual has the latest update status as of the vehicle’s launch, but due to the optimization and addition of vehicle functions, some interface diagrams or vehicle images may differ from the actual vehicle.
Thoroughly familiarize yourself with the contents of this Owner’s Manual prior to operation of your vehicle.
Owner Manual Version:﻿ VF3_25-26_VN_VI_1.3
Important Note - High Voltage Battery
The VinFast VF 3 should only be operated with a VinFast genuine battery.
VinFast, the battery owner (for battery subscription option), and their representatives, shall bear no responsibility for any damage or losses to the customer caused by the use of any non-VinFast battery in the vehicle or by not following the battery usage guidelines detailed in the vehicle Owner’s Manual.
The use of any non-VinFast battery in the vehicle may void the VinFast Manufacturer’s Warranty and the warranty coverage for the vehicle. The failure to allow VinFast to replace the battery in the vehicle, or to use, maintain and service the battery in accordance with instructions provided by VinFast (including the Battery Usage, Charging and Storing Guidelines), also may void the VinFast Manufacturer’s Warranty.
If the customer chooses the battery subscription option, the customer should sign a battery subscription agreement with the battery owner.
If the customer breaches any obligation of the Battery subscription agreement, they agree that the battery owner can take possession of the battery by any method permitted by law including:
Limiting the level of charge.
Utilization of geolocation technology in the battery or vehicle to locate the Battery for purposes of repossession.
Pursue any other remedies permitted by law.
If the customer chooses to resell the vehicle, or any other case that might lead to the transfer of vehicle title, the customer shall be responsible for:
Informing the purchaser that the battery is property owned by a third party and not the customer.
Shall cooperate with the battery owner to ensure a seamless transfer of the battery at the same time the vehicle is transferred.
Owner Manual Information
This Owner Manual will familiarize you with all the features, functions, equipment, and maintenance needs of your vehicle.
An initial overview of the vehicle is covered in the next section and provides relevant operating information, including the name and location of the key exterior and interior features and components.
Warning, Caution and Notes
The Owner’s Manual contains safety precautions and operating procedures. Failure to follow these safety warnings and instructions may lead to serious injury or even death.
To highlight content of importance, the following message formats will be shown:
WARNING
Critical information, often involving safety related content that if not followed could result in death or serious injury.
CAUTION
Important information relating to a feature, function, or situation, which if ignored, could result in damage to your vehicle.
NOTE
Key points of useful information.
It is recommended that you have your vehicle inspected by an authorized service center for all intermediate and major repairs. It is essential that the vehicle is repaired in accordance with VinFast specifications. Owners may perform minor self fix tasks if suggested by this Owner’s Manual or highlighted in vehicle alerts page. For all self-fix tasks, clear instructions will be provided. If the instructions provided are unclear, please contact VinFast service before proceeding.
Using the Quick Reference guide
A printed Owner’s Manual is provided with your vehicle and is placed in the glove box at the time of vehicle delivery.
The fastest way to find information on a particular topic is by using the Table of Contents.
Using the Digital Manual
An online interactive version of the owner manual can be accessed on any compatible Web-browser, as well as on the VinFast App. An integrated version of this owner manual is also available to view in vehicle on the Infotainment screen.
To access the Integrated Owner’s Manual in your VF 3, follow the steps below:
Tap “ App Library ” on the Infotainment screen.
Tap “ Owner’s Manual ”.
Use Touchscreen and search functionality to locate required content.
Applicable Content & Images
The information and specifications contained in the VF 3 owner’s manual are accurate at the time of publication;  Some functions described in this Owner’s Manual may not be applicable to your vehicle level, activated or available at the time of delivery including applications embedded in the infotainment system or the VinFast App.
The illustrations and images provided in this manual are for demonstration purposes only. Depending on the vehicle’s customization options, software version, and market region, the information displayed on the vehicle’s infotainment screen may differ from the information displayed in the owner’s manual. All directions referenced in the content (such as left, right, front, and rear) are based on the vehicle’s driving direction.
VinFast reserves the right to change specifications, design or equipment at any time without notice and without incurring any obligation.
The vehicle’s functions will continue to improve and software updates will be frequently released to improve the user experience and functionality of the vehicle. Any major updates made after the print deadline will be reflected in the digital Owner Manual that can be accessed and viewed at   https://om.vinfastauto.com/
Copyright & Trademarks
All rights reserved. All content within this Owner Manual is subject to copyright and other intellectual property rights of VinFast Trading and Production Joint Stock Company. This documentation should not be copied, modified, or reused in anyway without prior written permission.

# Overview


## Vehicle Overview

Electric Vehicle Overview
Your vehicle is powered by electricity and as a result some of the vehicle’s systems and operating characteristics are different from a vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine. It does not require gasoline or diesel to power the vehicle.
The vehicle uses two types of batteries. 12-volt (low voltage) battery which is similar to gasoline powered vehicles, the other is the Li-ion battery which may be referred to as the High Voltage (HV) or Electric Vehicle (EV) battery in this Owner Manual. The 12-volt battery provides power to the vehicle systems and features such as the infotainment system, supplemental restraint systems, headlights, and windshield wipers.
The vehicle uses energy stored in the Li-ion battery. The vehicle’s Li-ion battery must be charged with electricity before the vehicle can be driven. As the vehicle operates, the Li-ion battery gradually discharges. If the Li-ion battery becomes completely discharged, the vehicle will not operate until it is re-charged.
The high voltage Li-ion battery or EV Battery provides power to the electric motor that drives the vehicle. The vehicle must be plugged in to an appropriate charging point for the Li-ion battery to be charged.
Your vehicle is also equipped with a regenerative braking system which allows the vehicle to convert kinetic energy into electrical energy, which is used to recharge the battery increasing overall range.
This vehicle is considered to be an environmentally friendly vehicle because it does not emit exhaust gases, such as carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxide when in operation.
Exterior Overview
Charge port
Charging Instructions >   Charging Instructions
Antenna
Door handle
Doors >   Exterior Door
Front wipers
Wipers and Washers >   Front Wipers
Wheels and Tires
Wheels and Tires >   Wheels and Tires
Side mirrors
Mirrors >   Side Mirrors
Front hood
Front and Rear Compartments >   Front Hood
Head lights
Exterior Lighting >   Exterior Lighting - Front
Tail lights
Exterior Lighting >   Exterior Lighting - Rear
Liftgate
Front and Rear Compartments >   Liftgate
Rear parking radar
Park Assist >   Rear Parking Assist
Interior Overview
Depending on the vehicle version, equipment, and market, the interior may vary. The images in this section are for illustration purposes only and may not fully represent the actual vehicle.
Interior door lever
Doors >   Interior Door
Air vents
Climate Control System >   Air Vents
Horn and driver airbag
Infotainment screen
Infotainment >   Overview and Key Features
Infotainment screen volume vontrol
Hazard switch
Exterior Lighting >   Hazard Warning Flashers
Passenger side power window switches
Windows >   Window Controls
Door pocket storage
Storage >   Door Pocket Storage
Glove box
Storage >   Glove Box
Central console storage
Storage >   Centre Console
Front cup holder
Storage >   Cup Holders
Slot for Key fob
Starting & Shutting Down Vehicle >   Starting the Vehicle
Air conditioning control switch
Climate Control System >   Climate Control
Driver side power window switch
Windows >   Window Controls
Interior central locking button
Keys and Locks >   Central Locking Overview
Seats and Seat belts
Seats >   Front Seat Overview   ,
Seat Belts >   Seat Belt Use
Without Multi-Function Steering wheel (MFS)
With Multi-Function Steering wheel (MFS)
Light and Wiper lever
Exterior Lighting >   Turn Signals   ,
Driving >   Wipers and Washers
Gear shift lever
Drive Systems >   Transmission Gear Selector
Multi-Function Steering wheel (MFS)
Sun visor
Mirrors >   Sun Visor
Roof lights
Interior Lighting >   Roof Lights
Grab handle
Rear view mirror
Mirrors >   Rear View Mirror
Rear seat belt
Seat Belts >   Seat Belts use
Rear cup holders
Storage >   Cup Holders
Rear seats
Seats >   Rear Seat Overview
Charging Overview
Charge port
Charging Instructions >   Charging Instructions
Charging gun
Charging port door

# Openings & Compartments


## Keys and Locks

Central Locking Overview
The vehicle is equipped with a central locking button, which can be used by passengers inside the car to control the locking/unlocking of all doors. Central locking and unlocking of the vehicle can be accomplished by any of the following:
Vehicle key fob
Mechanical key
Interior central locking button
Interior Central Locking button
The central locking button is located below the Infotainment screen, and the vehicle can be locked/unlocked by pressing the button.
When the vehicle is unlocked, press the button, the indicator light will light up, and the doors will be locked.
When the vehicle is locked, press the button to turn off the indicator light and unlock the doors.
WARNING
When there are children in the car, the central locking system shall lock the doors in timely manner to avoid undesired operation of door opening using inner door lever.
CAUTION
To ensure the normal operation of the central locking function, please try to avoid pressing the central locking button multiple times in a short period of time.
Automatic locking function
The vehicle is equipped with an automatic locking function. When the function is enabled, the doors and liftgate will automatically lock when the vehicle’s driving speed exceeds 5 km/h.
You can set the automatic locking function on/off and the locking speed on the central control screen, see > Settings >   Vehicle and Drive Settings  .
Collision detection unlock
During serious accident, centrally locked doors will be unlocked by central locking system for convenient and quick rescue of passengers from the vehicle provided that the locking system is not adversely affected due to accident.
Key Fob Overview
Key Fob
The vehicle is supplied with remote Key Fob. Each Key Fob is paired to the vehicle and uses Radio Frequency (“RF”) technology to wirelessly perform the following vehicle functions:
Locking and Unlocking doors
Starting the vehicle
Lock button.
Unlock button
Key indicator light
When the lock  /unlock   button is pressed, the key indicator light   will light up.
WARNING
When exiting the vehicle, the key fob should be taken with the user. If the key fob remains in the vehicle and children are present, they can start the vehicle or operate the windows which can cause serious injuries or even death.
CAUTION
Protect the key from impact, high temperatures, and damage from liquids. Avoid contact with solvents, waxes, and abrasive cleaners.
NOTE
Please ensure that the vehicle is successfully locked before leaving.
If the remote control key does not work, it may be due to the battery running out of power and the key battery needs to be replaced, see >   Key Fob Battery  .
When using the remote key, please do not be too far away from the vehicle, otherwise the vehicle will not receive the remote key signal.
Key fob antenna
The vehicle Key Fob communicates with the vehicle via RF antennas. Key Fob communication with the vehicle may be impacted by the following:
The Key Fob battery is discharged.
The Key Fob is outside of the vehicle antenna operating range.
Interference caused by signals from powerful radio transmitters, mobile telephone, or electronic devices.
Interference as a result of nearby metallic objects.
WARNING
If a vehicle occupant has a pacemaker or other electrical medical implant/device fitted, they should maintain a safe distance as prescribed by their medical professional from the antennas in the vehicle. This is to avoid any possible interference between the vehicle antenna and the medical implant/device. See approximate vehicle Key Fob antenna locations below.
Using mechanical keys
The mechanical key can open the car door when the vehicle key is out of power or disconnect with 12V battery.
The location of mechanical key is inside the Key Fob, see  >    Mechanical key   .
CAUTION
Mechanical Key is relatively small in size and shape thus avoid random use of the mechanical key to avoid loss or theft.
Key Fob Battery
The battery will slowly deplete over a period of time even if the key is not being used. The following symptoms may exist to indicate that Key Fob battery is low:
There will be no responce from the key fob or from the vehicle even though the key fob is within vehicle antenna range.
When pressing the  key fob button, the indicator light does not flash.
To Replace the key fob battery:
Remove the mechanical key, see >   Using mechanical keys  .
Gently open the back cover   of the key fob using a suitable small tool.
Replace the battery   and ensure the new battery is in the correct orientation (Battery number: CR2032).
Reinstall the Key Fob back cover ensuring it clicks into place.
Insert the mechanical key back into its slot.
WARNING
Please keep the battery out of reach of children, as the replaced battery is very small. If children accidentally swallow it, it may cause serious injury or even death.
CAUTION
When changing the battery, do not touch any of the circuitry on the remote key. Static charge from your body could damage the remote key.
Incorrect disposal methods for waste batteries can damage the environment and endanger human health.
Do not crush, cut or burn the battery. Do not expose the batteries to environments with extremely low air pressures or extremely high temperatures.
NOTE
If the Key Fob is damaged or does not function correctly even after replacing the battery, contact a VinFast Service Centre.
Key Fob replacement
In case of accidental loss or damage need to replace key fob, please contact with the VinFast Service Center to support.
Remote Key Functions
Vehicle unlocking/locking
Lock vehicle: When both the car doors and trunk are closed, press the lock button   to lock the vehicle.
Unlock vehicle: When the vehicle is locked, press the unlock button   to unlock the vehicle.
Unlock only the liftgate: Long press the unlock button   to unlock only the liftgate.
Car search function: Long pressing the key lock button   can activate the car search function.
When the lock  /unlock   button is pressed, the key indicator light   will light up.
To use the infotainment screen to set unlock door options and feedback
Unlock door options
You can unlock the driver’s door/all door options through the central control screen settings, see > Settings >   Vehicle and Drive Settings  .
Lock/Unlock Feedback
When the vehicle is successfully locked (all doors fully closed), the vehicle will emit a single alert via the  Horn/Lights/Both  to notify the user that the vehicle is locked.
When unlocking the vehicle, the vehicle will emit two alerts via the  Horn/Lights/Both  to inform the user that the vehicle is unlocked.
You can set the unlocked/locked vehicle status through the central control screen, see > Settings >   Vehicle and Drive Settings  .
NOTE
If the lock switch is pressed when any of the doors are not fully closed, the vehicle will not be locked. In this case, the car will emit two alerts via the Horn/Lights/Both to notify the user that locking was unsuccessful.
CAUTION
Always ensure the vehicle is properly locked before leaving it unattended.
Find your car
In the locked state of the vehicle, when carrying the remote key within a range of about 20m from the vehicle, long press the remote key lock button   to activate the vehicle horn or turn signals or both, depending on the settings to help locate the vehicle.
Press the key unlock/lock button again to cancel the car search function.
Automatic re-lock function
If the door does not open after the vehicle is unlocked, the vehicle will lock again after 30 seconds.
Mechanical Key
The Mechanical Key is integrated into the vehicle key fob. The mechanical key can be used to lock and unlock the car door manually if the key fob battery or the 12V battery is discharged.
To release the mechanical key:
Press the mechanical key switch   on the back side of the key fob.
Remove the mechanical key   in the direction of the arrow.
CAUTION
The mechanical key body is relatively small. When not using the mechanical key, please do not remove it randomly to avoid loss.
The use of mechanical keys:
Insert the mechanical key into the driver door lock barrel.
Rotate clockwise to open the car door and counterclockwise to lock it.
NOTE
In the event of a drained 12V battery, all doors will be locked or unlocked at the same time when the mechanical key is used.
Please keep the mechanical key safe. If lost, please contact VinFast Service Centre.
Unlocking the vehicle with a mechanical key will trigger the theft alarm after 20s. It is necessary to start the vehicle in a timely manner to deactivate the theft alarm, see > Starting & Shutting Down Vehicle >   Starting the Vehicle  .

## Doors

Exterior Door
Ensure that the vehicle has been unlocked using Key fob.
Pull the handle outwards while also pulling open the door.
WARNING
Observe your surroundings when closing the door to ensure safety.
NOTE
When the doors are opened, the indicator light for the door opening will be displayed on the Infotainment screen.
If the remote control key runs out of battery, the car door may not be able to be unlocked and opened. At this time, the car door can be opened using the mechanical key. See > Keys and Locks >   Mechanical Key  .
Interior Door
Use the door lever to open the door from inside both doors are equipped with door levers.
When the vehicle is locked, pull the door lever twice to open the door.
When the vehicle is in an unlocked state, pull the door lever to open the door and push the door outward to open further.
WARNING
Observe your surroundings when opening the door to ensure safety.
NOTE
When the doors is opened, the indication light for the door opening will be displayed on the Infotainment screen.

## Front and Rear Compartments

Liftgate
The liftgate is located at the rear of the vehicle, and provides access to the rear cargo compartment. Liftgate opening conditions:
The vehicle is in an unlocked state, see >   Remote Key Functions
Vehicle has sufficient battery
When the vehicle is stationary
Liftgate Operation
The liftgate can be operated using any of the following methods:
Exterior button
Key fob
To open the liftgate through an external button:
The liftgate button is present on the exterior of the vehicle.
Unlock the vehicle, see > Keys and Locks >   Remote Key Functions  .
Press the external liftgate button to open the liftgate.
Open the liftgate to the maximum open position.
To use the key fob to open the liftgate:
Long press the remote key unlock button on the remote key to open the liftgate, see > Keys and Locks >   Remote Key Functions  .
Open the liftgate to the maximum open position.
To lock the Liftgate:
Press the liftgate to close it until it locks into place.
WARNING
Lift gate is supported by hydraulic struts. Due to its characteristic, liftgate may fall and cause injury. To avoid accidents or injury, always open the lift gate to maximum open position.
Do not allow children to operate the liftgate button.
Do not allow passengers to travel in the rear cargo compartment area.
Do not keep the liftgate open, while the vehicle is in motion.
When opening or closing the liftgate, check for any obstacles (pedestrians or objects) around the liftgate to prevent damage to the trunk or objects and pedestrian injury during the opening or closing process.
Do not leave children unattended around an open luggage compartment. They could get inside the luggage compartment and accidentally close the liftgate trapping themselves inside.
During Winter season, remove all the snow which may accumulate on the vehicle before opening the liftgate.
CAUTION
When correctly closed , the lift gate should be aligned with all surrounding panels.
Emergency Safety Release:
If the electric liftgate switch does not operate, the liftgate can be operated manually from inside the vehicle. The mechanical lever of the liftgate is located inside of the vehicle’s liftgate.
Enter the rear space and fold the backrest of the rear seats, see > Seats >   Seat Adjustment  .
Find the mechanical emergency release position on the liftgate  .
Use a flat edged tool to turn the mechanical lock lever   to the right, while pushing outward to open the liftgate.
CAUTION
If both the vehicle remote key and the vehicle are fine, but the liftgate can only be opened mechanically, it may be a malfunction of the liftgate. Please visit a VinFast Service Centre to check your vehicle.
Front Hood
Below the front hood, you can see a 12 volt battery, front fuse box, and brake fluid reservoir, see > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts >   Fluids, Lubricants and Parts Overview  .
Due to the unique opening method of the front engine hood, it is not recommended for you to operate it yourself if you do not have strong hands-on ability and related tools. If you need to open it, please visit the VinFast service center.
Open the front hood
Use a flat edged tool to pry open the front end   of the cowl panel corner trim, and then pull out the cowl panel corner trim   towards the inside of the vehicle.
Use appropriate tools (T-handle metric socket wrench 13, wrenches 13...) to remove the front hood fixing bolts  .
Pull out the front hood   towards the front of the car and remove it.
CAUTION
Please place the dismantled front hood properly to avoid damage to the paint surface.
Installing the front hood
There are 5 fixed clips   under the front hood. When installing the front hood towards the vehicle body, make sure that the clips are correctly inserted into the slots.
Install front hood in revers order of disassembly. Tightening torque of the front hood fixing bolts: 6.5 N.m.
WARNING
Ensure proper installation, otherwise the improperly secured front hood may fall off or flip over to block the view while driving, leading to accidents.

## Windows

Window Controls
The vehicle is equipped with electric windows. They are controlled using  the window switches that are located below the Infotainment screen.
Operating the window switch:
Driver side window up and down switch
Passenger side window up and down switch
Operating the window up and down:
Manual opening or closing:
Opening: Gently press  DOWN  on the switch protrusion position, and the car window begins to open. Release the switch and the window will stop moving.
Closing: Gently pull  UP  the switch protrusion position, and the car window begins to close. Release the switch and the window will stop moving.
WARNING
Before closing a power window, ensure that all occupants, especially children, do not have any body parts extended through the window opening. Failure to do so could cause serious injury.
CAUTION
Avoid repeated operation of power window switch in a short period of time. This can cause electrical overheating of the power window motors and temporary deactivation of power window operation.
Avoid tinting the window glass as a tinted window can affect  visibility of rear-view mirrors.
NOTE
When the vehicle power mode switches from ON to OFF and the doors are not open, the windows can continue to be operated for 2 min. If the car door opens within 2 min, the window cannot continue to operate.
Safety Functions
Overload Protection
To avoid electrical overload, the window operation is disabled for a short period of time if the switch is repeatedly operated at short intervals.
Glass Types
Front Windshield Glass
The front windshield glass is a laminated glass. Laminated glass refers to the use of a transparent and adhesive plastic film between glass layers, which combines the strength and toughness of plastic with the hardness of glass, increasing the glass’s resistance to breakage.
Front Window, Rear Side Window, and Rear Windshield Glass
The front windows, rear side windows, and rear windshield glass are all tempered glass. When tempered glass breaks, it will split into particles. Even if scattered inside the car, it is not easy to harm the passengers inside.

## Storage

Glove Box
The vehicle glove box is located under the dashboard on the passenger side.
To open the glove box:
Pull the handle in the direction shown and open the glove box.
To close the glove box:
Gently push upwards on the outside of the glove compartment until it locks into place.
WARNING
Do not put heavy or sharp objects in the glove box. In an accident, these objects may cause the glove box to open and could result in serious injury.
Never leave the glove box door open while driving, a passenger may suffer serious injuries due to an open glove box door in the event of an accident.
Center Console
The center console area is located between the driver’s seat and the passenger seat, below the dashboard.
Storage area in front of the center console:
There are two storage areas in the front of the center console where items can be placed or stored.
WARNING
Do not keep flammable items in the vehicle.
Do not place any hard or sharp objects in the storage compartments. In the event of an accident or emergency braking, such items may be thrown out, resulting in personal injury.
Door Pocket Storage
The vehicle features door pocket of storage which is located below two car doors. The door pockets are designed to store drink bottles and other small personal items.
Ensure that the items stored inside the door pockets fit properly in the compartment. If bottles or other items are too large for the door pockets, store them in another safe location, such as the rear cargo compartment.
WARNING
Any unsafely stored items within door pockets may become loose during vehicle operation. Such items may come out from the compartment when the vehicle is in motion and may lead to situations resulting in serious injury or death.
Avoid storing glass items in door pockets. Such items may break whilst driving and may cause serious injuries to passengers.
When storing bottles in door pockets, always ensure that the bottle cap is fully tightened.
Cup Holders
The vehicle has a Cup Holders for the storage of beverages and other small items both in the front and rear compartments.
Front cup holders
The cup holders are located in between the front seats.
Rear cup holders
The rear cup holders are located on both the rear doors.
Ensure that the items stored inside the cup holders fit properly in the compartment. If bottles or other items are too large for the cup holders, store them in another safe location, such as the rear cargo compartment.
WARNING
Do not put anything other than cups, beverage cans or the vehicle key in the cup holder,in the event of an accident or emergency braking, such items maybe thrown out of the cup holder, resulting in personal injury.
In the event of an accident or emergency braking, such items maybe thrown out of the cup holder, resulting in personal injury. If there are hot drinks, please tighten the cover tightly to avoid scalding.
Front Compartment
The Front Compartment located under the hood at the front of the vehicle provides access to the maintenance items.
To access the front compartment:
See > Front and Rear Compartments >   Front Hood  .
Fuse box
Washer fluid tank
12V Battery
Brake fluid reservoir
Rear Cargo Compartment
The rear cargo compartment provides storage for luggage or objects that need to be stored securely including the vehicle tools (if equipped). The vehicle tools can be stored in this compartment under the cargo load floor  .
To remove the cargo load floor cover  , pull up on the tab.
WARNING
Never leave your vehicle unattended, especially if the Liftgate is open. Children may enter the luggage compartment and close the Liftgate from the inside. Children may get trapped inside which can result in injury or death.
Do not allow small children to play in the vehicle. When you leave the vehicle, close and lock the Liftgate as well as all other doors.
CAUTION
When storing liquid items, ensure it is sealed properly and stored. Incase of liquid leakage causes damage to the vehicle. If there is a leak, please clean it up in a timely manner.
Tool bag (if equipped)
The vehicle may equipped with tool bag  , used to store vehicle towing hook and some vehicle maintenance tools needed.

## Vehicle Security

Theft Alarm
The theft alarm system helps to protect the vehicle and its contents from break in. When activated the system will trigger both an audible and visual alert using the vehicle horn, turn signals.
Once the theft alarm system is activated, it will continuously monitor the status of the vehicle’s door locks. When it is detected that the correct remote key has not been used to open the door/tailgate, the theft alarm system will be triggered.
If the theft alarm system malfunction indicator light on the central control screen lights up, the vehicle cannot activate the theft alarm system normally. Please contact the VinFast service center in a timely manner.
The vehicle theft alert will be triggered in following situations:
Opening the car door without unlocking it with the remote key.
Opening the liftgate without unlocking it with the remote key.
To change the alert type:
You can set the type of anti-theft alarm through the central control screen, see > Settings >   Vehicle and Drive Settings .
Anti theft alarm duration
The anti-theft alarm system will cycle for 8 alarm cycles once triggered, with a single alarm cycle lasting for 28s.
Enabling the theft alarm system
After the vehicle is locked, see > Keys and Locks >   Remote Key Functions  , and the vehicle anti-theft alarm will be automatically activated.
NOTE
If any side door or liftgate is not closed, the vehicle will not activate the anti theft alarm.
After locking the car for a few seconds, the anti-theft alarm will automatically activate.
When the liftgate is opened, the alarm will be partially activated, and when the liftgate is closed, the alarm will be fully activated.
The theft alarm system has been triggered
When the anti-theft alarm system detects that the driver-side door is opened using the mechanical key, the alarm will be activated after approximately 20 seconds. If any of the other doors are opened, the anti-theft alarm will be activated immediately. In this case, the anti-theft alarm system must be turned off.
When activated, the anti-theft system will emit an alarm and the turn signal lights will flash.
Deactivating the theft alarm system
You can use any of the following methods to deactivate the anti-theft alarm:
Press the unlock button on the remote control key.
Start the vehicle.
NOTE
If the key fob battery is completely discharged, then the alarm will not be deactivated by pressing the key fob Unlock button. To disable the alarm with a discharged key fob battery, see > Starting & Shutting Down Vehicle >   Starting the Vehicle  .
Immobilizer
The immobilizer system in a car serves the primary purpose of enhancing vehicle security by preventing unauthorized individuals from starting and operating the vehicle.
Vehicle Immobilizer Operation
The immobilizer is automatically activated when the vehicle is in OFF state.
Each key provided with the vehicle is equipped with a specific coding transponder. Only with the correctly encoded key the vehicle can be started. The immobilizer indicator will be displayed briefly on the instrument panel when starting the vehicle. If the immobilizer system recognizes the key fob correctly, the indicator light will turn off.
If the system does not recognize the coding of the key fob, the indicator light will flash. This may prevent the vehicle from starting. If this occurs please ensure you have the correct key fob in the vehicle, remove any metal objects around the key which can cause interference. If this repeatedly occurs and inhibits the vehicle from starting, it is recommend to contact a VinFast service center.
WARNING
The vehicle has anti-theft function, but it cannot prevent all theft activities and cannot guarantee the absolute safety of the vehicle.
Do not tamper with electrical devices in the vehicle as this can cause unrecoverable vehicle issues.
NOTE
If there is electromagnetic interference around the vehicle, such as power plants, signal towers, etc., it may cause the anti-theft system to malfunction.
If the instrument display screen displays indicative information about the anti-theft system malfunction, it indicates that there is a malfunction in the anti-theft system. Please contact the VinFast service center in a timely manner.

# Seats, Restraints & Safety


## Seats

Front Seat Overview
The vehicle is equipped with integrated seats and headrests that cannot be separated.
Before driving the vehicle, it is necessary to adjust the seat to the correct position to ensure optimal protection in the event of an accident. The seat, headrest, seat belt, and driver airbag work together to ensure the overall safety of driver and passengers.
WARNING
Do not adjust the driver seat while the vehicle is moving. Adjusting the driver seat while the vehicle is moving, can cause loss of control and lead to an accident that may cause serious injury or death.
Ensure to maintain the recommended distance from the steering wheel and airbag when adjusting the seat.
NOTE
Ensure to sit in the correct seating position to ensure optimum driving comfort, see >   Correct and incorrect seating positions  .
Use of a seat belt is mandatory for the entire duration of the journey.
Rear Seat Overview
The vehicle is equipped with integrated seats and headrests that cannot be separated.
The seats, headrests, and seat belts work together to ensure the overall safety of passengers.
NOTE
Ensure to sit in the correct seating position to ensure optimum ride comfort, see >   Correct and incorrect seating positions  .
Always wear seat belts when traveling in the vehicle.
Seat Adjustment
The vehicle is fitted with a driver’s seat and three passenger seats. Correctly adjusting the seat can maximize the protection of passenger driving safety.
WARNING
Due to the fact that the vehicle is only equipped with four seats and seat belts, for passenger safety protection, the vehicle can carry up to four passengers.
Front Seat Adjustment(4-way manual)
Forward/Rearward Adjustment:
Pull up the lever   to adjust the seat to the desired position. Release the lever to lock the seat in place.
Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment
Lift the backrest adjustment lever   , move the seat back to the desired position, and then release the adjustment lever to lock the seat back in place.
WARNING
During vehicle operation, it is prohibited to adjust the seat, otherwise danger may occur.
Sitting in a fully reclined position when the vehicle is in motion can be dangerous and reduces the effectiveness of vehicle safety systems. This increases the chance of serious or fatal injuries in the event of a collision or sudden stop.
All occupants in a moving vehicle must keep the seat backs upright and fasten the seat belts at all times.
Ensure to keep fingers clear of moving seat components while adjusting to avoid risk of injury.
The driver and front passenger should sit as far rearward as possible to reduce risk of injury from a deploying airbag.
Do not put any luggage, loose items or pets on the front passenger seat.
Entry and Exit to Rear Seats
You can enter and exit the rear seats by operating the passenger seat adjustment handle.
To enter the rear seats:
Press down on the passenger’s seat handle   and pull the seat backrest to fold it to its maximum position, it automaticaly unlocks the seat’s forward and backward sliding function.
Push the seat forward to its maximum position to enter the rear seat.
To exit from the rear seat:
Pull the passenger seat backrest handle   backwards and simultaneously push the seat backrest forward to fold it to its maximum position. At this time, the seat forward and backward sliding function is unlocked.
Push the seat forward to its maximum position to get out of the rear space.
WARNING
After entering or exiting the vehicle, the seat should be restored to the locked position to avoid any forward or backward movement of the seat that may affect the driver’s line of sight during driving.
Folding and unfolding of rear seats
Folding Rear Seat
Pull up the locking straps   on the left and right sides of the rear seat, and then fold the rear seat forward.
Unfolding the Rear Seat
When the rear seat backrest is lifted upwards, the locking buckles on both sides will get locked. It makes a “click” sound when correctly locked.
WARNING
Make sure hands, fingers, feet or other body parts are kept clear of the seat folding mechanism while adjusting or folding the rear seat.
Ensure each rear seat backrest is locked securely in position to ensure the backrest does not move during sudden braking or during an accident.
Do not put any heavy or unsecured luggage on the rear seats or inside the passenger compartment.
CAUTION
Ensure that the seat belt is not caught behind the rear seat when returning the rear seat backrests to the upright position.
Do not place heavy objects on the seat when folding, as they may damage the seat.
Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions
A correct seating position is very important to ensure safety to driver and passengers. Follow these recommendations for proper seating positions:
The driver and passengers feet must be on the floor.
The driver and passenger should not slide forward on the seat.
The driver and the front passenger should maintain a distance of from the steering wheel or the dashboard.
The backrest must be in an upright position and the occupants back should be resting against it.
The backrest should not be reclined to a laying down position when the vehicle is in motion.
Ensure that all occupants are sitting at the ﻿center of each designated seat. Sitting in a haphazard manner (offset from the seat ﻿center, sideways, etc.) may cause fatal injury in the event of an accident.
Children should not lean against the dashboard area. Arms of the driver should be just slightly bent (around 120 degrees) and the chest should not be closer than 30 cm from the wheel.
All occupants of the vehicle must wear seat belts when the car is in motion for the entire duration of the journey.
Examples of incorrect seating position:
Example of correct seating position:

## Seat Belts

Seat Belt Use
Wearing seat belts correctly in the event of a collision can reduce personal injury and protect the head neck and chest of drivers and passengers from injury.
Before each trip, passengers must fasten their seat belts in the correct way, otherwise accidents may result in serious personal injury or death.
WARNING
Each seat belt is only allowed for one person to use, and it is not allowed for multiple people (including children) to share the same seat belt.
Do not change, disassemble or install equipment that may change the direction or tension of the seat belt.
After any collision, the vehicle should contact the VinFast service center to check the seat belt system. Even if the seat belt does not appear to be damaged, some of its internal protective functions may no longer operate. If the seat belt is found to be damaged or running abnormally, it must be replaced.
Introduction and use of seat belt types
The front seats of the vehicle are equipped with three-point seat belts with pre tensioning, force limiting, and emergency locking retractors; The rear seats are equipped with a three-point safety belt with an emergency locking retractor.
When a vehicle experiences a serious frontal collision, the pre tensioner works together with the airbag, automatically retracting the seat belt, eliminating the slack in the seat belt, thereby reducing forward thereby reducing forward movement of passengers.
When the seat belt tensioner is triggered, it will release a small amount of dust (smoke) and may make a loud noise. This is a normal phenomenon and will not cause a fire. The smoke and dust generated during prolonged exposure to the detonation of the tensioner may cause skin or eye discomfort.
When a passenger experiences forward movement that causes the seat belt to reach a certain tension, if the front seat belt tensioners are triggered, the force applied to the diagonal section of the seatbelt will be limited in order to help reduce the chest compression injury.
WARNING
Once the seat belt tensioner is activated, it must be replaced.
If the seat belt has burrs, contamination, or damage, it must be replaced in a timely manner.
Correct seating position
A correct seating position is very important to ensure the driver’s and passenger’s safety. Follow all recommended seating guidelines to minimize the chances of injury in the event of an accident.
For more information, see > Seats >   Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions  .
WARNING
If the occupants of the front seats are close to the steering wheel or Infotainment display, the airbag system may not provide optimal protection, which increases the risk of injury or death.
To fasten a seat belt:
Latch Plate
Buckle
Ensure a correct seating position.
Advance the seat belt from its retracted position. Make sure that the belt is not twisted and lays flat across the occupant’s body (shoulders, torso, and pelvic region), as shown  .
Insert the latch plate into the buckle   , to make sure that the latch plate clicks in to locked condition.
Pull the seat belt to check that it is fastened securely.
Pull the diagonal part of the seat belt over the occupant’s torso and shoulders towards the retractor to remove any excess slack  .
WARNING
Inadequately positioned seat belts may increase the risk of serious injury in an accident. To avoid wearing the seat belt incorrectly, occupants must always sit in the correct seating position; place one arm under the shoulder belt and the other over the shoulder belt (ensure that the shoulder belt is not against your neck or face) and place the lap belt across the hip (as low as possible), not across the waist.
Ensure that the seat belt fits the body snugly and the belt is not twisted and the latch plate is locked properly into the buckle.
Do not place other items between the seat belt and the body.
Please keep the seat belt buckle clean and promptly remove any foreign objects inside the buckle. If you are unsure how to proceed, please contact the VinFast service center.
To unfasten the seat belt:
Grasp the seat belt latch   to prevent rapid retraction of the seat belt after it is released, which may cause injury to passengers or damage to the vehicle.
Press the “red” seat belt buckle button   to unlock the seat belt. When not in use, place the seat belt properly.
If the seat belt is not fully retracted, manually retract it and do not leave the seat belt in a loose and hanging state.
Testing Seat Belts
Make sure each seat belt operates correctly by performing these three simple checks.
After fastening the seat belt, pull the seat belt upwards to ensure that the seat belt buckle can securely lock the seat belt latch.
Unroll the webbing to the limit with the belt unfastened. Make sure that the unreeling is free from snags and that the webbing is in good condition. Check that the webbing retracts smoothly and completely.
Grasp the seat belt latch and quickly pull the seat belt forward. It should automatically lock and prevent further pulling out.
If a seat belt fails any of these tests, contact a VinFast Service Centre immediately.
Wearing a Seatbelt while Pregnant
Pregnant women must wear their seat belts correctly when riding in vehicles, which is crucial.
The seat belt must be worn comfortably, and the waist belt should be pulled down as much as possible to wrap around the lower part of the waist instead of the waist. The shoulder belt should pass through the shoulders and chest, and the shoulder belt or waist belt of the seat belt should not pass through the abdomen. Please consult a doctor for specific guidance.
WARNING
Pregnant women should avoid using seat belts that touch the raised abdomen. The waist belt should be flat against the thighs and placed as low as possible below the abdomen.
Do not wear twisted seat belts. Excessive forces will be transferred from the belt to the occupant in a collision, resulting in serious personal injury.
Seat belt Warning Indicator
Driver and Passenger seatbelt status:
The seat belt warning system is used to remind passengers inside the car to fasten their respective seat belts before driving.
When a front seat is occupied and a corresponding seat belt is not fastened the seat belt warning light   will illuminate on the Infotainment screen.
When the vehicle is started or the speed is less than 15km/h, and there are front passengers who have not fastened their seat belts, the infotainment screen will light up a visual warning icon; When the vehicle reaches a speed of over 15km/h, the seat belt warning system will also emit an audible warning signal. After the alarm lasts for 95 seconds, the warning sound will automatically disappear and the visual warning icon will continue to light up until you fasten your seat belt.
The reminder device alerts passengers through the following methods:
The seat belt unfastened icon on the infotainment screen.
Sound reminder signal.
WARNING
Seat belts must be used by all occupants whenever the vehicle is moving. Not wearing seat belts may result in serious injury or death.
Do not unfasten a seat belt while driving for any reason. Failure to follow this warning could result in serious personal injury or death, in case of accident.
If a seat belt is damaged or the retractor mechanism is not working properly, get the parts replaced by VinFast Service Centre. Using a damaged seat belt is very dangerous and may result in serious personal injury or death.
Do not modify or tamper with the seat belt or its mechanism as it may lead to failure of the system. Using a seat belt with damaged component is very dangerous and may cause serious injury or death.
Do not latch the seat belt into the buckles of other seats. Seat belts are designed to function effectively only when the latch plate of a particular seat belt is locked into its paired buckle. Failure to follow this warning could result in serious personal injury or death.
Do not wear the shoulder belt under your arm or behind your back. Doing so is unsafe and may result in serious personal injury or death.
Do not wear the seat belt with any part of the strap twisted. A twisted seat belt will not function properly in an accident and could result in serious personal injury or death.
Multiple people should not use a single seat belt. Seat belts are designed to protect a single occupant occupying a particular seat where it is mounted/attached.
Make sure there is nothing in the buckle interfering seat belt’s latch plate. This may prevent the seat belt from fastening securely. Failure to follow this warning could result in serious personal injury or death.
CAUTION
Do not wear a seat belt over fragile, hard, or sharp objects. This can damage the objects or seat belt.
Seat Belt Care
A seat belt is a critical component within the vehicle occupant protection system. Proper care must be taken to ensure that they function effectively in the event of an accident or a collision.
Do not use defective or damaged seat belts. Please visit the nearest VinFast service center as soon as possible to check your seat belt.
Recommendations for seat belt care:
Ensure that the seat belt is not damaged or clamped by sharp objects.
Always keep the seat belt retractor clean and free of dust.
Avoid contamination of the seat belt webbing by polish, oil, chemicals, and particularly battery acid.
Seat belts can be cleaned lightly using mild, non-abrasive soap and lukewarm water. After washing, clean the seat belts thoroughly. Do not allow the belts to retract until they are completely dry.
Regularly inspect the seatbelt webbing for contamination, damage, or fraying.
Do not bleach or dye the webbing because this may weaken the seat belt.
Do not insert any foreign items such as coins, clips, etc., into the seat belt buckles. If foreign materials get into a seat belt buckle, the seat belt may not work properly.
WARNING
Do not disassemble, modify, or tamper with the seat belt system, as it may affect the seat belt performance.
In case of accident, a seat belt system may not provide adequate protection.
CAUTION
Do not use bleach, strong detergents, or an abrasive brush or cloth to clean the seatbelt as it may damage and weaken the fabric.
Do not use steamers, brushes with hard bristles, hard sponges etc to clean the seats as this can damage the seats.

## Airbags

Airbag
The vehicle is equipped with an airbag system for the driver. The driver airbag works together with the seat belt system to provide maximum protection.
WARNING
Always wear a seatbelt since it may be the only restraint system protecting the occupant as airbags by design may not necessarily deploy in every vehicle collision.
Airbag Location
Driver Airbag
How Airbag Work
The airbag system consists of:
Airbag module.
Crash sensors, monitoring system, and airbag indicator   (shows the operational status of airbag).
The auxiliary restraint system continuously monitors multiple vehicle sensor inputs to determine the severity of vehicle collisions and decides to deploy airbag when needed.
WARNING
Inflatable airbag and properly fastened seat belts limit the driver’s mobility and reduce the risk of injury from contact with vehicle internal components.
NOTE
When the airbag is activated, accompanied by a loud noise, it will rapidly expand with force.
Some collisions may appear to have significant structural damage but the driver airbag has not deployed. Conversely, some collisions with lower levels of structural damage may trigger an airbag deployment. An airbag will deploy if the vehicle deceleration level is high enough in order to provide the necessary protection for the driver. Therefore, the appearance of the vehicle after a collision does not indicate whether the airbag should have inflated or not.
The impact of expansion
When the airbag expands, it will release a fine powder. This powder may irritate the skin and should be thoroughly rinsed off eyes and cuts or abrasions.
If the airbag expands or the vehicle experiences an accident, it is necessary to inspect the airbag, seat belt tensioner, and any related components; Please contact the VinFast service center or an approved dealer for inspection or replacement.
When a collision occurs, in addition to the airbag expanding, the doors will also be unlocked accordingly.
Airbag warning indicator
The airbag indicator light   on the infotainment screen is used to indicate whether there is a malfunction in the airbag system.
Normal Condition -  The indicator light will light up for a few seconds and then turn OFF after the vehicle is started.
Abnormal Condition - The indicator light to illuminate or flash continously.
NOTE
If the abnormal condition is noticed, stop the vehicle and park it in a safe location and contact the VinFast service center.
Types of Airbag
The vehicle is equipped with one airbag for the driver. It is located in the center of the steering wheel. The deployment location of the airbag is marked with “AIRBAG” identifiers.
How the airbag is triggered:
The driver airbag is designed to deploy during significant frontal collisions, minimizing risk of injury to the head and shoulder region.
During a collision the vehicles crash sensors will receive information regarding the collision type, the collision angle, and the severity of impact. Based on this information the vehicles Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) will determine if the crash event meets the criteria for front airbag deployment.
WARNING
Make sure that nothing is in between the passenger and airbag deployment area as it may interfere with airbag deployment.
NOTE
In the event of a rear or side collision, the front airbag may not deploy, and in this case, only the front seat belt tensioner will maybe activated.
Operation of Airbag
Driver airbag deployment conditions
The vehicle is equipped with sensors. In the event of a collision, these devices calculate the impact on the vehicle and at a certain impact the airbag is triggered/deployed. Other factors also related to density and stiffness of the impacted vehicle or objects are also considered.
The driver’s airbag protects the head, neck and chest of the driver, avoiding direct impact from the steering wheel/dashboard. The airbag will only expand in the event of a serious frontal collision.
WARNING
The airbag system can only provide one-time accident protection function. If the airbag has been triggered, the airbag system components must be replaced.
When the airbag is deployed, HV battery will be disconnected. Please contact the VinFast service center or Customer call center immediately for assistance.
Airbag inflate condition:
In the event of a frontal collision, the airbag is deployed when sensors of the vehicle detect sufficient impact intensity.
The airbag may deploy if bumps or objects on uneven roads or sidewalks affect the vehicle chassis.
Situations where airbag may not deploy
In many types of accidents, such as rear end collisions, side collisions, oblique collisions, special rear end collisions, rollover accidents, and certain special collisions, the airbag may not deploy.
In secondary or tertiary collisions, or low-speed collisions, even if the airbag are deployed, they cannot provide additional protection.
The vehicle collided with a pillar or tree, but the collision force did not meet the triggering conditions of the airbag sensor.
Due to the collision force and deceleration not meeting the requirements, the vehicle does not meet the triggering conditions of the airbag sensor when it collides with other vehicles or enters the lower part of a large vehicle.
When a rear end or side collision causes the vehicle to roll over, the airbag may not deploy.

# Driver Assistance Systems


## Park Assist

Rear Parking Assist
The Rear Parking Assist system assists the driver when parking by alerting them to surrounding objects, such as, vehicle, motorcycle, bicycle, pedestrian, pillar, and road block. The system provides visual and audible alerts to inform and warn the driver. The system uses ultrasonic sensors located on the rear bumpers to identify obstacles.
Park assist sensors are located on the rear bumper to identify surrounding obstacles.
NOTE
Ensure all Park Assist Sensors are free from the build-up of snow, ice, dirt, or mud which may impact their operation. For details on cleaning the sensors, see > Vehicle Cleaning >   Radar, Sensor  .
Rear Parking Assist status
The highlighted sector area indicates that an object has been detected in that area. As the vehicle approaches the object, the highlighted sector area will change from yellow to red. You will hear an alarm sound, and the closer the vehicle is to an object, the higher the alarm audio rate.
CAUTION
Rear Parking Assist is not a safety system, and its design intention is to provide assistance during parking. Even if used, the system cannot replace your attention and judgment.
Activate Rear Parking Assist:
After the vehicle starts, when you place the gear lever in reverse (R gear) to reverse, Rear Parking Assist will automatically activate.
Rear Parking Assist will sound an alarm for objects detected within sensors’s detected area.
Deactivating Rear Parking Assist
When vehicle’s speed is greater than 10 km/h.
The vehicle exits reverse gear (R) and switches to another gear.
To turn ON/OFF Park Assist Chime Mode
Tap  Mute    when available on Car Control Area.
Park Assist Faults
If a fault is detected, the parking assist system will display a warning message on the infotainment screen.
If a Park Assist sensor has a fault due to dirt or a blockage, clean the impacted sensor. For more details on cleaning sensors, see > Vehicle Cleaning >   Radar, Sensor  .
WARNING
The driver must always remain alert and in full control of the vehicle at all times including during parking manoeuvres.
Park Assist may not detect potholes, trenches or drains.
Under certain circumstances, various reflective surfaces, objects or clothing may cause the system to fail to detect obstacles. Special attention has to be paid to low obstacles which can damage the lower part of the bumper.
Always check the surrounding area when reversing and using the Rear Parking Assist System.
CAUTION
Do not apply paint on sensors, it will effect on the performance of sensors.
Rear View Camera (If equipped)
The Rear View Camera is used to display the area behind the vehicle and to assist with reversing or parking ﻿manoeuvres.﻿ ﻿The system uses a camera mounted above the rear ﻿licence plate and displays an image on the Infotainment screen.
WARNING
The rear view camera provides assistance when reversing, but this system cannot replace your attention and judgment.
The camera has blind spots, and within the blind spot range, the camera cannot detect objects or people around or near the vehicle.
The distance of images displayed may vary from actual.
Rear view camera view
Rear view
Directional guide line
Obstacle warning
Activation/Deactivation
Activate rear view camera:
After the vehicle starts, when you place the gear shift lever in reverse (R gear) to reverse, rear view camera will automatically activate.
Deactivation rear view camera:
The rear view camera will turn off when any of the following conditions are met:
The gear is shifted from Reverse (R) to Neutral (N) or Park (P) and remains in that position for at least 3 seconds.
The vehicle speed exceeds 18 km/h.
The camera is manually deactivated via the infotainment screen.
To set up guide lines and obstacle warnings
Tap  Vehicle settings    >  Parking and Camera    :
Dynamic Direction Guidelines:  To turn on/off the dynamic direction guidelines, tap    ON/OFF.
Obstacle Warning Overlay:  To turn on/off the obstacle warning overlay, tap    ON/OFF .
Rear View Camera Faults
If a rear view camera has a fault due to dirt or a blockage, clean the impacted camera. For more details on cleaning camera , see > Vehicle Cleaning >   Radar, Sensor and Camera Care  .
WARNING
Keep the Rear View Camera lenses clear, as unclear lenses will impact vision and objects may not be detected leading to a collision.
Do not obstruct the Rear View Camera by installing objects, such as a bumper sticker or a bumper guard, near the Rear View Camera.

# Driving


## Starting & Shutting Down Vehicle

Starting the Vehicle
Carrying the correct remote key is necessary to unlock and start the vehicle.
To start driving the vehicle:
Without Multi-Function Steering wheel (MFS)
With Multi-Function Steering wheel (MFS)
Unlock and open the car door.
Insert remote key Fob   into the detection keyhole.
Close all the doors or press the brake pedal  ,”READY” will be displayed on the Infotainment screen indicating the vehicle is ON.
Press the brake pedal and move lever   up/down all the way to switch to Reverse (R)/Drive (D), and at this time, the vehicle’s EPB function will automatically be released.
Press accelerator pedal   and the vehicle begins to move, when the creep mode is ON the vehicle will move slowly without needing to press on the accelerator.
CAUTION
The above operation must be followed to start the car normally. When it cannot start normally, check if the above operation is correct.
Before driving, please check and confirm that the seats, steering wheel, and exterior mirrors are adjusted to a safe and comfortable position, and that the brake pedal can be pressed normally.
To power OFF the vehicle:
Without Multi-Function Steering wheel (MFS)
With Multi-Function Steering wheel (MFS)
Press the brake pedal   until the vehicle has come to a complete stop.
Press the Park (P)   button.
Take away the remote key, lock the car door, then the vehicle power will be turn OFF.
WARNING
Do not shift between Drive (D) and Reverse (R) or Park (P) while the vehicle is in motion.
Do not accelerate while engaging a gear.
Do not press down the accelerator pedal and brake pedal at the same time.
Ensure that all occupants fasten their seatbelt before driving the vehicle.
Vehicle Power Mode Information
The vehicle consists of three power modes:
OFF - Vehicle is powered OFF and no accessories or vehicle drive gears are available.
Accessory (ACC) - Unlock the vehicle and open the doors, and the vehicle enters ACC mode. At this time, the accessory power mode is activated, allowing access to the infotainment functions on the infotainment screen.
ON (Ready) - The accessory and vehicle drive power are both turned ON.
Low Key Fob Battery
If the battery level of the key Fob is low, the vehicle can still be started a few times for emergency starting.
You need to replace the key Fob battery as soon as possible, see > Keys and Locks >   Key Fob Overview  .
CAUTION
If the vehicle still fails to start after replacing the key fob battery, please contact the VinFast Service Center.

## Drive Systems

Transmission Gear Selector
The Transmission Gear Selector is used to engage different gear positions, which include Park (P), Reverse (R), Neutral (N), and Drive (D).
The gear lever is located on the right side of the steering wheel.
Without Multi-Function Steering wheel (MFS)
With Multi-Function Steering wheel (MFS)
Park (P): Press the button on the side of the lever to for Park gear.
Drive (D): Push the gear lever down to the maximum position for Drive gear.
Reverse (R): Push the gear lever up to the maximum position for Reverse gear.
Neutral (N): Shift the gear lever to center for to Neutral (N) gear.
To select a gear position:
Depress the brake pedal and ensure the vehicle is stationary or has come to a complete stop.
Move the lever to select the desired gear.
The selected gear will be displayed on the Infotainment screen.
WARNING
Do not speed up while engaging a gear.
Do not press down the accelerator pedal and brake pedal at the same time.
Never leave the vehicle unattended while the power is ON.
It is prohibited to use N gear for vehicle coasting while driving.
CAUTION
When the gear is in Neutral (N) gear, the brake pedal should be pressed to prevent slipping.
Neutral
In Neutral (N), your vehicle rolls freely when no brakes are applied. Neutral (N) can be used to allow the vehicle to be manoeuvred in a workshop environment or to be moved onto a towing truck.
CAUTION
Shifting to Neutral (N) will disable regenerative braking resulting in greater than normal brake pressure being required.
Shifting to Neutral (N) should only be done while a driver is in the vehicle to apply the vehicle brakes when necessary.
Drive modes
The vehicle has two driving modes, which can be selected to change the vehicle’s acceleration response and power transmission. The driving mode can be changed through the infotainment screen.
Available Driving Modes are:
Eco
Normal
To select a Driving Mode:
Tap  vehicle settings    >  Car Modes  .
Find  Drive Mode , tap to select  ECO/NORMAL .
Eco mode
Slow acceleration response
Normal mode
Accelerated response becomes faster
NOTE
After starting the vehicle, it defaults to normal mode.
Creep Mode
Creep mode is suitable for driving at lower speeds in stop and go traffic or parking lots. After activating this function, the vehicle will slowly travel in the selected direction of travel without the need to press the accelerator pedal.
Tap  vehicle settings    >  Car Modes  .
Find  Creep Mode , tap to select  ON/OFF .
WARNING
Do not rely on creep mode to prevent your vehicle from rolling down a hill. Keep your foot firmly on the brake pedal if you wish to remain stationary or on the accelerator pedal if you wish to ascend a hill. Failure to do so may result in accident causing serious injury or death.
Electric Parking Brake
The Electric Parking Brake (EPB) is an electronically controlled parking brake that is designed to hold or stop the vehicle when parked. Additionally, it can also be used as an emergency brake.
When EPB is active, the   icon is displayed on the Infotainment screen.
Without Multi-Function Steering wheel (MFS)
With Multi-Function Steering wheel (MFS)
To engage the Electric Parking Brake:
Press the brake pedal to stop the car smoothly. When the vehicle is stationary, press the P gear button to switch gears to P gear to achieve parking. The parking brake is only applied to the rear wheels and is independent of the service brake system.
CAUTION
When returning to P (Parking mode), the electronic parking brake will be automatically engaged simultaneously. Avoid pressing the brake continuously to prevent the electronic parking brake system from detecting abnormal operation.
To release the Electric Parking Brake:
When the brake pedal is pressed, the driving (D) or reverse (R) mode is selected, the electric parking brake will automatically release.
CAUTION
When the vehicle is out of battery, the EPB cannot be released. Please contact VinFast service workshop.
To use the Electric Parking Brake in an Emergency:
If it is not possible to park through the brake pedal, the electronic parking brake can be used for emergency braking.
Press and hold about 3 seconds the P gear button   to achieve emergency braking function.
The Electric Parking Brake will slow down the vehicle until switch is released.
CAUTION
Do not use the Electric Parking Brake to stop the vehicle, except in case of an emergency. The brake system may get damaged if the Electric Parking Brake is used repeatedly to slow down or stop the vehicle.

## Mirrors

Side Mirrors
Mirrors mounted on the front side door of the vehicle to provide the driver with visibility of the left and right sides of the vehicle.
Depending on the version, the outside rearview mirrors may be electrically adjustable or manually adjustable.
WARNING
Make sure that the blind spot location is clear during parking, changing lanes, turning, or overtaking other vehicles. It may cause accident, injury or even death.
Do not drive with exterior side mirrors folded. Ensure that the mirrors are positioned correctly and that the rear view is not restricted by ice, snow, condensation, or other objects.
CAUTION
When adjusting the mirrors, rotate them before tilting to avoid damaging the brackets.
Mirror Adjustment (manual)
Manually adjust the mirror angle forward/backward and tilts downward/upward.
Maintain a driving position to ensure normal visibility of the road conditions behind the vehicle.
Mirror Adjustment (Power Adjustable)
For vehicle variant equipped with power-adjustable outside rearview mirrors, you can control the mirrors via the touchscreen. To adjust the mirrors, proceed as follows:
To activate the outside rearview mirror control
Touch the mirror adjustment icon   on the infotainment screen.
Select the mirror you want to adjust.
Use the navigation control on the screen to adjust the mirror position.
NOTE
If the vehicle is equipped with a power folding mirror function, you can fold or unfold the mirrors using the corresponding button on the screen.
The mirror position cannot be adjusted while the rearview camera is active.
CAUTION
Do not fold or unfold the mirrors manually to avoid damage. Please use the automatic mirror folding/unfolding function or operate it directly via the central infotainment display.
To deactivate the outside rearview mirror control
The mirror control will automatically turn off after approximately 12 seconds if no adjustment is made.
Alternatively, you can turn it off manually by touching outside the mirror adjustment area or pressing the (X) button on the infotainment screen.
Automatic mirror folding/unfolding (if equipped)
The automatic mirror folding/unfolding function allows the side mirrors to automatically fold or unfold based on the vehicle’s lock status, helping enhance convenience and protect the mirrors when parking.
The mirrors will automatically fold when the vehicle is locked.
The mirrors will automatically unfold when the vehicle is unlocked or when the vehicle speed exceeds 16 km/h.
Rear View Mirror
Use the Rear View Mirror to view of the area behind the vehicle through the vehicle’s rear glass.
Mirror adjustment
The rear view mirror position can be adjusted manually by hand. Adjust the rear view mirror when the vehicle is stationary and while seated in the correct driving position for a clear view of the area behind the vehicle.
Manual anti glare adjustment
The rear view mirror can be manually adjusted by pushing or pulling the adjusting lever to avoid being blinded at night by vehicles from the rear.
WARNING
Do not adjust the mirror while driving. Doing so can cause distraction leading to an accident, resulting in death or serious injury.
Do not place objects in the rear seat, cargo area, or behind the rear head restraints which could obstruct vision through the rear window.
CAUTION
Do not spray glass cleaner directly on the mirror as this may damage it. Use a soft towel dampened with water.
NOTE
Before driving, always adjust the rear view mirror for a clear view of the area behind the vehicle.
Sun Visor
A sun visor is provided for the driver and front passenger. The sun visors can be positioned to block sun glare coming through both the front and side windows by removing it from its mounting point.
Sun Visor adjustment
Block the sunlight ahead:
Rotate the sun visor downwards to a desired angle to block the sunlight.
Block side sunlight:
The sun visor can be adjusted in several orientations including:
Rotate the sun visor downwards to the desired angle.
Detach from the mounting clip and swing outward.
WARNING
Driving with the sun visor in the down position will reduce your view of the road.
Sun visors should always be folded away if they are not being used.
When using the sun visor, do not lean too far forward in front of the airbag. The front airbag could cause serious injury if triggered.

## Exterior Lighting

Exterior Lighting - Front
Overview
Contact VinFast Service Centre for any lights replacement. Replacement lights must be of the same type and size as the original lights.
Position light
Turn signal
High and Low beams
CAUTION
Do not use a dry cloth or sponge to clean the headlights as they may scratch or damage the surface of the lens.
NOTE
In cool or humid weather, condensation may occur inside the headlights. This will be cleared shortly after turning on the indicator light and will not affect its lifespan.
Exterior Lighting Controls
The external lighting of the vehicle can be controlled through the multifunctional switch lever located on the left side behind the steering wheel.
Up – Right turn signal
Down – Left turn signal
Push – High beam ON
Pull – High beam flash
Rotate - Turn on position lights/low beams
WARNING
Improper use of lighting can increase the risk of accidents.
High/low beam headlights
When the low beam is activated, the   indicator light on the infotainment screen lights up and turns green.
When the high beams are activated, the   indicator light on the infotainment screen lights up and turns blue.
NOTE
Only when the low beam   is turned on, can the lever be pushed to turn on the high beam. Otherwise, only the high beam flashing function can be used.
Turn Signals
The vehicle Turn Signals are controlled using the multi switch stalk located on the left side of the steering wheel.
To operate the Turn Signals:
Push the lever up to the maximum position  , and the right turn signal light will continue to flash.
Gently push the lever upwards to position  , and the lever will automatically return to its original position. The right turn signal will flash three times.
Gently push the lever down to position  , and the lever will automatically return to its original position. The left turn signal will flash three times.
Push the lever down to the maximum position  , the left turn signal will continue to flash.
The turn signals   and   on the entertainment screen will flash according to the frequency of external turn signals flashing.
To cancel the Turn Signals:
The turn signal will be cancelled when:
When the lever is pushed to its maximum position, if the steering wheel rotates back to its original position by a certain angle, the lever will automatically return to the middle position.
When the turn signal is in a continuous flashing state, manually control the lever to return to the middle position.
The 3-flash sequence has ended.
Hazard Warning Flashers
The Hazard Warning Flashers warn other drivers to take caution. It should be used in the event of an accident, or if pulled over on the side of the road, or when the vehicle is stopped on the motorway.
The hazard warning light switch is located below the infotainment screen.
To activate/deactivate the Hazard Warning Flashers:
Press the hazard warning light switch, and the hazard warning light will start flashing. Press the switch again to turn off the hazard warning light.
After the hazard warning lights are turned on, the signal light    on the entertainment screen flashes.
NOTE
The hazard warning flashers can operate even if the vehicle is OFF.
In case of emergency braking, the hazard warning flasher will automatically activate.
Exterior Lighting - Rear
Overview
Turn signal lights
Reverse lights
Reflection region
Stop/Brake lights/Position light
License plate lights
Stop/Brake Lights
The Stop/Brake Lights turn ON when the brake pedal is pressed to alert other road users that the vehicle is slowing down.
Turn Indicator Lights
Turn signal lights are used to indicate that the vehicle will change lanes or turn. When the driver uses the indicator stick to initiate a turn, they will light up.
Reverse Lights
The Reverse Lights turn ON when the Ignition is ON and Reverse (R) is selected.
Licence Plate Lights
License plate lights make the license plate visible in dark conditions. When the low beam or position lights are turned on, the license plate lights will light up.
Rear Reflectors
The rear reflection area is used to reflect light and helps improve the visibility of vehicles at night.
CAUTION
Do not use a dry cloth or sponge to clean the rear taillights as they may scratch or damage the surface of the lens.
NOTE
In cool or humid weather, condensation may occur inside the rear taillights. This will be cleared shortly after turning ON the lights and will not affect its lifespan.

## Interior Lighting

Infotainment Screen Brightness
Brightness Control
In order to assist viewing under different lighting conditions, the brightness of the vehicle’s infotainment screen display can be adjusted. The brightness of the entertainment screen can be adjusted through the lighting settings in the settings menu.
To adjust brightness via Notification Center:
Slide the infotainment screen from top to bottom and pull out the  Notification Center .
Use the  Display Brightness  slider to adjust the brightness﻿.
To adjust brightness via Lighting Settings﻿:
Tap  App Library    >  Settings   .
Tap  Display    >  Brightness .
Use the  Display Brightness  slider to adjust the brightness.
WARNING
Do not adjust the brightness when the vehicle is in motion. Failure to comply may lead to an accident which can cause damage, serious injury, or even death.
NOTE
Backlight intensity of Stalk switch, Central control switches and Air conditioning control switch will be also adjusted according to the brightness level of MHU.
Roof Lights (Front)
The front reading light is located in the middle area of the front roof and can provide illumination to passengers in their cabin areas.
To manually turn on the front reading lights:
Slide switch   to the right position to turn on the reading light.
Slide switch   to the middle position to turn OFF the reading light.
Slide switch   to the left to activate the automatic on/off feature for the reading light.
To automatically turn on the front reading lights:
When the unlock button on the remote control key is pressed, the front reading lights will automatically turn on and then turn off if the door is not opened within approximately 15 seconds.
When the vehicle door is opened and the power is ON (any power mode), the front reading lights will automatically turn on and then turn off after about 15 minutes. When all car doors are closed, the reading lights will automatically turn off.
When the car is locked using the remote control key and the anti-theft system is activated, the reading lights will automatically turn OFF.
WARNING
Do not use the interior lights while driving in the dark. The interior lights may affect the driver’s view and may cause an accident.
NOTE
Do not use the interior lights for extended period of time when the vehicle is turned OFF otherwise the 12V battery will be discharged.
Battery Power Protection
Battery Power Protection prevents unnecessary battery drain by ensuring that the Lights, Infotainment System, or other electrical systems are not left ON for an extended period of time. The systems will remain ON for a maximum time of one minute, if user wants to leave vehicle position lights ON, it shall be turned ON again in ignition off condition.

## Wipers and Washers

Front Wipers
The Front Wipers are used to remove water, rain, snow, dirt, and debris from the vehicle’s front windshield. The wipers operate across the front windshield to give the driver better visibility.
Wiper Controls
The front wiper control lever is integrated with the light lever and is located on the left rear side of the steering wheel. To use the front wiper, you need to press the button on one side of the control lever.
Mist:  Gently press and hold button   on the side of the lever to the first position, and the front windshield wiper will initiate the windscreen wiper.
Spray water:  Press the lever button   to the second position, and the wiper will continue to spray water and wipe; Release the button to stop water spraying and wiping, and the wiper will return to its initial position.
OFF:  Rotate switch   to the OFF position to turn OFF the front wiper function.
INT1:  Rotate switch   to the INT1 position, and the front wiper will be wiped every 4s.
INT2:  Rotate switch   to the INT2 position, and the front wiper will be wiped every 2s.
LO:  Rotate switch   to the LO position, and the front wiper will start to wipe continuously at low speed.
HI:  Rotate switch   to the HI position, and the front wiper will start to wipe continuously at high speed.
CAUTION
Before using the wipers, please clear the ice and snow on the windshield and confirm that the wiper blades are not frozen in a fixed position.
If there are wrinkles or stains on the windshield, it is necessary to clean the windshield and wiper blades. If the problem still persists, replace the wiper blades.
It is strictly prohibited to operate the wiper blades when the windshield is dry.
To prevent possible damage to the washer pump, do not operate the windshield washer when the fluid reservoir is empty.
Do not attempt to move the wipers manually, it may damage the wiper arms and other components.
Always use VinFast-approved washer fluid in the washer reservoir. Failure to follow this instruction may severely impact visibility when washer fluid is sprayed on the windshield, and might damage the windshield.
NOTE
The Wiper/Washer activation function will work only when the vehicle is in ON condition.
Check the washer fluid level regularly.
Check it often when the weather is bad.
Fill the washer fluid reservoir till full.
To prevent icing on the windshield during the colder months, turn on the defroster to heat the windshield before and during washer use.

## Braking and Stopping

Traction Control System (TCS)
The Traction Control System (TCS) is an active safety feature which helps to limit the wheel slip and assist the driver in maintaining the control of the vehicle, especially in slippery road conditions. TCS monitors the speed of each individual wheel, and if slip is detected, it applies brake pressure to that slipping wheel in order to maximize traction.
TCS will be ON by defaut when starting the vehicle, it is recommended that TCS is ON at all times for maximum safety.
The TCS light   will temporarily flash ON the section of the Infotainment screen when the TCS system is actively applying brakes. In case of a malfunction is detected the TCS light   will remain ON. In this case, contact a VinFast Service Centre to have your vehicle inspected.
To disable TCS
If the vehicle gets stuck in snow or mud, the TCS may reduce the power output from the motor to the wheels, and you may need to turn off the system to get out of the predicament.
Tap  vehicle settings    >  Car Mode .
In  Car Mode  scroll down to  Traction Mode .﻿
Tap  ON/OFF  to enable/disable.
WARNING
Traction Control System cannot prevent accidents caused by dangerous driving or emergency steering at high speeds.
CAUTION
The Traction Control System should always be turned on to maximize the safety of the vehicle and its passengers.
Anti-lock Braking System (ABS)
The Anti-Lock Braking System (ABS) prevents the wheels from locking and helps maintain steering during hard braking events. This enables the vehicle to reduce braking distance and enhances drivability in varied road surface conditions. The speed of each wheel is monitored and braking pressure on each wheel is adjusted so that the wheels continue to rotate and don’t lock and slide.
When ABS is working, you will feel brake pedal vibration and may hear noise, which is a normal phenomenon when ABS is working.
WARNING
The use of tires with insufficient traction (such as excessively worn tires on snow covered roads) may result in ABS not working effectively.
The ABS warning light   and Brake warning light   briefly illuminate when the vehicle is started. If the lights do not illuminate, contact VinFast Service Center to have the vehicle inspected and repaired.
If the ABS warning light is on and it remains on, you may have a problem with the ABS system. Do not drive your vehicle, contact VinFast Service Center to have the vehicle inspected.
ABS does not compensate for dangerous driving.
CAUTION
Maintaining strong and stable pressure on the brake pedal is crucial in emergency braking situations. Moving the foot off the brake pedal will increase the braking distance.
ABS performance is impacted by snow, ice, roads covered with dirt or gravel. Drive carefully. Always keep enough distance ahead to stop the vehicle.
Electronic Brake Distribution (EBD)
Electronic Brake Distribution (EBD) optimizes the braking performance of the vehicle under different operating conditions. It electronically adjusts the brake bias in between the wheels (front and rear) based on road conditions, vehicle load, speed, traction, etc.
WARNING
EBD system does not compensate or prevent accidents caused by dangerous driving or high speed manoeuvres.
Electronic Stability Control (ESC) (not equipped)
This vehicle is not equipped with Electronic Stability Control (ESC). Accordingly, vehicle dynamics may differ from models equipped with ESC such as during sudden steering maneuvers or on low-traction surfaces. Drivers are advised to exercise extra caution under such conditions.
Driving Recommendations:
Always reduce speed when entering curves, especially on slippery roads, inclines, or surfaces with gravel, sand, or loose debris.
Avoid sudden acceleration or hard braking on wet or low-traction surfaces.
Do not steer abruptly at high speeds, as this may cause the vehicle to lose control or skid.
Maintain a safe following distance to allow additional time to react in unexpected situations.
Always adapt your driving style to suit road conditions and the vehicle’s load status.
Hill launch assist (HLA)
HLA (Hill Launch Assist) is a feature designed to assist driver when stopped on a slope. When the brake pedal is released to drive over a hill, it assists the driver to smooth start without rolling backward.
To use Hill launch assist (HLA):
Engaging the feature:
Stop a vehicle on the slope (> 7%). Press and hold the brake pedal to sufficiently stop a car for 2 seconds. Park brake will apply automatically.
Or
Apply park brake manually by changing the gear to P.
Once you release the brake pedal, Hill Launch Assist momentarily holds the brakes.
Automatic release
Press the acceleration pedal, the system will automatically release the brakes and allowing the driver to move forward smoothly without roll back.
WARNING
Do not rely on Hill launch assist (HLA). It does not replace human input and intuition in any way or form. Always pay attention to the surroundings and drive safely.
A heavily loaded vehicle may cause the vehicle to roll backwards slightly.
Regenerative Braking
The vehicle is equipped with a Regenerative Braking System. The system converts kinetic energy usually released as heat during a braking event into electrical energy. The recovered energy can then be used to replenish the HV battery, leading to increased vehicle range.
The system gets activated as soon as the accelerator pedal is released. It will gradually slow the vehicle down and start recharging the HV battery.
The energy recovery can be monitored from Power and Regen Gauge   on the Infotainment screen just below the Drive Mode icon on the status bar.
NOTE
The amount of Regenerative Braking may be reduced when the vehicle is fully charged or when the battery is very cold or very hot.
CAUTION
Do not consider Regenerative braking as a primary form of vehicle charging, it is a supplementary feature.
Follow proper charging instructions when charging the vehicle.
Emergency Signal System
The Emergency Signal System (ESS) temporarily activates the hazard lights when the vehicle detects an emergency braking situation. Rapid flashing of the hazard lights helps warn nearby vehicles of a rapidly slowing vehicle and alerts them to maintain a safe distance to avoid collision.
The hazard lights stops flashing once the emergency braking event ends. If the hazard lights continue to flash, contact the nearest VinFast Service Centre.
For information on Hazard Warning Flashers, see > Exterior Lighting >   Hazard Warning Flashers  .

## Economy & Environment

Economical Driving
Economical driving can help to improve energy efficiency, road safety, and prevent abnormal wear of vehicle.
Refer to the following recommendations for economical driving:
Avoid harsh braking:  The Regenerative Braking System is a key enabler of economic driving. The system converts some of the vehicle’s kinetic energy into electrical energy which is then used to recharge the vehicle’s batteries and extend the driving range of the vehicle. Taking advantage of Regenerative Braking by reducing friction on the brakes will significantly improve the driver’s ability to drive economically and to avoid harsh acceleration and braking. See > Braking and Stopping >   Regenerative Braking  .
Maintain an efficient speed:  High speed driving increases energy consumption, discharging the battery faster, and therefore reducing the vehicle’s driving range.
Reconsider use of heating and air conditioning:  The vehicle’s Heating, Lighting, Climate Control, Audio, and Infotainment systems consume energy from the vehicle’s battery system and will therefore reduce the vehicle’s driving range. Whenever it is safe and convenient to do so reduce the usage of these systems to drive economically.
Tire pressure:  Always keep the tire inflation pressure at the recommended level to reduce unnecessary rolling resistance that decreases efficiency of the battery.
Battery management:  To improve the health and life of the battery keep the vehicle in a well-maintained condition. Better battery health will improve the driving range. Minimize the use of DC Fast Chargers to improve the Battery life. Do not allow the battery charge to drop to a very low level.
Remove unnecessary weight:  Energy consumption can be reduced by removing excessive or unnecessary weight, when not in use and it is convenient to do so, improve vehicle driving range by removing items such as unused child seats, disposable, and personal items, roof carriers etc.
Maintain distance:  Maintain an adequate distance from other vehicles to avoid emergency braking.
Wheel alignment:  Have the wheel alignment checked as recommended in the maintenance schedule. Incorrect wheel alignment can lead to increased tire wear and power consumption.
Windows:  It is always recommended to drive with all the windows closed if possible.
Driving Statistics
Driving Statistics displays the history of the average battery consumption, distance traveled, and power consumption of the vehicle over a selected period of time. This data is also available in the VinFast App.
To open Driving Statistics:
Tap  Profile Name    on the status bar.
Tap  My Profile    >  Driving Statistic   .
Driving Statistics Graph    will be displayed on the screen.
Time Duration
Tap  Expand    icon.
Select the Time Duration or customize the Date Range as required.
Tap  Apply  to apply the Time Duration for Custom range.
Statistics will be shown for the selected Time Duration.
To select View:
Select from the following different views for statistics:
Distance
Avg. Consumption
Power
To Zoom In/Out:
To zoom In, touch and drag apart two fingers on the Infotainment screen.
To zoom Out, touch and pinch in two fingers on the Infotainment screen.
To view Next/Back page:
Swipe right to left to view the Next page.
Swipe left to right to go Back to Previous page.

## Flood Precautions

Flood Precautions
It is not recommended to drive in flooded roads or areas.
If it is mandatory to drive through a flooded area, to prevent the vehicle from being damaged, it is necessary to pay attention to the following precautions:
Check water depth before driving through water. The water level should not exceed the vehicle’s ground clearance.
2. Drive at a low speed (less than 10 km/h). Otherwise, waves may form in front of the vehicle, damage the motor controller and other components, and make the vehicle unable to drive.
Do not park or reverse in water under any conditions.
WARNING
Apply the brakes several times to restore braking function after driving through water.
The presence of water, mud, or silt in the braking system can reduce braking efficiency and increase stopping distances. Drive carefully, maintain a safe following distance, and avoid sudden braking.
Driving through deep water can damage your electrical motor. This damage is not covered by the warranty.
Other systems like transmission, driving and electrical may also be seriously damaged upon submersion. This damage is not covered by the warranty.
Effects of waterlogging on high-voltage parts
If your vehicle is submerged in water or if you drive through water that reaches or exceeds the doorsill, water may enter the high-voltage system, this can pose serious safety risks. Servicing flood-damaged vehicles by unauthorized workshop cannot guarantee, please contact VinFast for support and bring vehicle immediately to VinFast authorized dealers for checking and repair if vehicle is flooded.
Effects of waterlogging on the A/C Condenser
Water, mud, leaves, or debris accumulated after driving through flooded areas may affect the A/C condenser, and the cooling performance of the system. After driving through flooded areas, inspect and clean the front grille area. If any abnormal condition is detected, have the vehicle inspected by an authorized VinFast Service Workshop.

# Displays, Connections and Climate


## Touchscreen

Infotainment Screen Overview
You can control or adjust vehicle features and functions through the infotainment screen. The infotainment screen has also replaced the traditional combination instrument panel to display important information such as vehicle speed, driving status, warnings, indications, and more.
Key vehicle information displayed by the Infotainment screen includes:
Speed and odometer
Warning lights and indicators
Vehicle battery state of charge
Key functions controlled by the Infotainment screen include:
Media, phone, and navigation
Vehicle headlights
Access to rear cargo area
Infotainment screen layout
Driving View
Display vehicle status and driving related information, including vehicle speed, warning icons, widgets, and battery status.
Profile Avatar Area
Displays key information related to connectivity and user profiles.
Widgets
Display media, weather, and other widgets.
Home button
Tap to back to the home page.
App Library
Display the available Apps.
Vehicle and Drive App
Display vehicle function settings options.
App library
The App library displays all the Apps available on the infotainment system. Apps are located on the bottom left corner of the homepage.
To open App library:
Tap App Library   on the Infotainment screen.
All available Apps will be displayed.
Infotainment Screen Use
Use the Infotainment Screen to control the vehicle and infotainment settings.
It is recommended that users familiarize themselves with all Infotainment screen related content presented in the Owner’s Manual. This will enable the driver to focus their attention on driving, while experiencing the best performance and features offered by the system.
WARNING
Do not use the Infotainment screen frequently and avoid reading any texts while driving. Extended focus on the Infotainment screen may lead to an accident, and can cause serious injuries or death.
CAUTION
Use high quality microfiber cloth to clean the Infotainment screen display. Do not use any abrasive material or cleaning solutions on Infotainment screen display as it can cause permanent damage.
Infotainment screen display operation
Selecting a function:
Tap any function to select it.
Example:  Tap on any app, to open.
Zooming In/Out
To display images or web pages, place your fingers and thumbs on the entertainment screen and unfold them.
To zoom out, put your finger and thumb on the Infotainment screen and pinch them together.
Browsing Lists and Panning
Browsing lists:
To scroll down the browsing lists, drag from bottom to top.
To scroll up the browsing lists, drag from top to bottom.
Panning:
This allows your to change the view to another location by dragging on the screen, without changing its magnification.
View another location on a map or a zoomed in image without changing its magnification by using the panning function.
Notification
Notifications from an application are shown in the form of a popup on the Infotainment screen. Tapping on a notification launches the associated app. If untouched, the notification automatically gets dismissed.
Notification Types
There are three different types of notifications:
Notification
Description
Examples
Banner
Provides information of an in-progress event. (Options may be provided related to the event).
Dialog
Messages notify of a task and may contain critical information or seek confirmation or direction from the user.
Warnings and Alerts
Provides information of a vehicle related issue to the user.
(They are shown in Car Control Area and can be reviewed at any time via the vehicle alerts page. Vehicle warnings will be coloured depending on importance).
Notification Center
This feature provides a list of all non-critical vehicle messages or status indicators.
NOTE
For a list of all active critical vehicle warnings. See >   Vehicle Alerts  .
To open Notification Center:
Slide down from the top status bar of Infotainment screen.
Notification Centre﻿ window will open directly.
Tap on any notification from the list to view the details.
To clear notifications in Notification Centre﻿:
To clear all notifications, tap  Clear All   .
Swipe right to left on any notification   to remove it from the list.
To close Notification Centre:
Press and hold   and slide upwards to close the notification center.
WARNING
Do not read detailed information or perform other tasks on Infotainment screen while driving. It can cause distraction, leading to a vehicle collision, injury, or death.
User Profiles
Using this feature you can create a profile unique to your likes and preferences. The vehicle will automatically recall the saved settings when the appropriate profile is selected.
The primary profile of the vehicle is linked with a VinFast account. The account must be created on the cloud and approved by the owner before being added to the vehicle.
The secondary profile of the vehicle is linked with a VinFast account. The account must be created on the cloud and approved by the Primary driver before being added to the vehicle.
Examples of vehicle settings that may be saved against a profile:
Sound Settings
Language and System Settings
Device Connection Settings
Light Settings
NOTE
Up to 3 different configuration files can be created, including the main driver, co driver, and guest.
Creating new profiles or switching profiles is disabled when the vehicle is not in Park (P).
A profile can’t be duplicated.
To create a new Profile:
Tap  Profile Name    on the status bar.
Tap   to create a  New Profile .
Enter a name in the text field.
Tap  Next .
After confirmation, the newly created profile will be saved, and a notification will pop up on Infotainment screen.
To delete a Profile﻿:
Only the option to delete the driver profile on the device can be selected.
NOTE
Only Primary driver can create, edit, delete, or duplicate profiles.
Camp Mode
Use Camp Mode to extend use of the Infotainment Screen to access music, web surfing, and, watch media files in the vehicle without the vehicle accessory power shutting down.
Activation
Preconditions for Camp Mode activation:
The vehicle must be in Park (P).
The vehicle must be ON.
Battery state of charge must be greater than 25%.
To activate Camp Mode:
Slide down from the top status bar of Infotainment screen.
From the vehicle function shortcut selection list, click on Camp Mode .
Deactivation:
Tap Exit Camp Mode  on the Infotainment screen. OR
Change gear mode to Drive (D)/Reverse (R)/Neutral (N).
NOTE
Camp Mode will be automatically deactivated if battery state of charge is less than 15%.

## Infotainment

Overview and Key Features
The infotainment system can be controlled by using the Infotainment screen. It is used for playing various types of media sources.
Radio - Use Radio to listen to FM radio frequency band. See > Infotainment >   Radio  .
Bluetooth Audio - When connected to a valid Bluetooth device you can listen to stored or streamed audio via Bluetooth Media. See > Infotainment >   Bluetooth Audio  .
USB Media - When connected to a valid USB device you can listen to available audio and video via USB Media. See > Infotainment >   USB Media  .
WARNING
Do not use the Infotainment screen when driving as distraction from the road can cause an accident leading to serious injury and death.
Media widget
When you tap on a Media Widget, the associated media source will open in full screen.
Widget overview:
Media Source Information
Thumbnail
Heading (Song name, channel etc.)
Sub Heading (Artist name)
Song Progress
Media Controls (Previous, Play/Pause, Next)
Media widget list:
Radio FM
Bluetooth
USB Media
Radio
Use the FM listening radio application to listen to radio stations, which you can find on the infotainment screen.
Operating the Radio
Radio Overview
Media source: Radio/USB/Bluetooth
Seek/scan/station skip
Playable radio stations
Favorite radio stations
Exit app
Search icon
Launching Radio app﻿:
Tap  App Library    >  Media   .
Tap  Radio   .
Station List
The radio station list is automatically updated with nearby stations for each radio frequency band. If available, the station name and radio frequency is displayed on the screen. The  Radio Bar    below the list of stations allows the seek/scan and station skip functions.
To manually search a station:
Tap Search   icon on top right corner.
Enter station frequency in Search field.
Matching stations will appear below the search field. Select your preferred station.
NOTE
The station list will automatically refresh after a period of time.
Radio Favorites
Favorites can be saved from FM﻿ stations lists.
To save a Favorites station:
From FM﻿ station list tap the heart icon next to the station you wish to add as a Favorites﻿.
The  Heart  icon will illuminate.﻿
The station will now appear in Favorites list﻿.
To view Favorites:
To view the list of Favorites Stations, tap  Favorites  in the Radio App.
To remove/rename a Favorites station:
Select the radio station to be deleted and tap  Three Dots   .
Select  Remove Favorite   .
To rename a favorite station:
Select the favorite station to be renamed and tap  Three Dots   .
Tap  Rename  .
Change name.
Tap  Done .
To top your favorite radio station:
Select the radio station to be topped and tap  Three Dot   .
Tap  Move to top   .
The radio station has been topped up.
WARNING
Continuous use of Infotainment screen controls when driving may lead to distraction causing an accident, leading to serious injuries or death.
Sustained exposure to high sound levels greater than 85 decibels may cause hearing damage.
NOTE
The favorites list will be sorted in sequential order with the most recently added station at the top.
Some radio stations may be out of range. These stations will remain stored under favorites but will not be visible in the station list.
Bluetooth Audio
Use Bluetooth to connect to a valid Bluetooth device and listen to stored or streaming audio/video via Bluetooth Media. Bluetooth Media is available as part of the Music App.
For more information about Bluetooth connections See > Settings >   Device Connect  .
Bluetooth Audio Overview
Exit app
Device name
Current Track/Artist
Progress bar
Play/Pause/Track skip
Media source: Radio/USB/Bluetooth
Playing Media
To launch Bluetooth Media:
Tap  App Library    >  Media   .
Tap  Bluetooth Media   .
To change Bluetooth devices:
Tap  Drop down arrow   .
Select available Bluetooth device from the list  .
To change track:
To change track, use Controls
OR
Can change track via connected Bluetooth device.
WARNING
Do not operate a mobile device while driving as distraction from the road can cause an accident leading to serious injury and death.
NOTE
When Bluetooth is selected and sound is inaudible, check the volume of the infotainment system and mobile device.
USB Media
Connect to a valid USB storage device to play the available audio and video content. USB Media is available as part of the Music App. For more information about USB connections, see >   USB Ports & Power Outlets  .
To launch USB Media:
Insert a USB containing Media content in the front USB Data Port.
Tap  App Library    >  Media   .
Tap  USB Media   .
Supported USB Media file types:
Music: M4A, AAC, AMR, WAV, MP3, OGG, FLAC
Video: MP4, TS, WEBM, MKV, 3GP
USB Media Player
Media Player Overview
The USB media player provides details of the current playing media and media playback controls.
Exit app
Expand Icon
Song Title/Artist Name
Song Progress Bar
Media Controls- Shuffle, Previous, Play/Pause, Next, Repeat
Media source: Radio/USB/Bluetooth
Search
USB Media tabs
On main screen of USB Media you may find:
Recents
Artist
Genres
Videos
Folder
Recents
This page shows a list of recently played media through the USB Media device.
To open Recents page:
To open Recents window, tap  Recents  tab.
NOTE
Recents shows maximum of 20 recently played songs.
Artists
This page shows a list of available Artists on the USB Media device.
To open Artists page:
Tap  Artists  tab.
Tap any Artist name from the list.
Genres
This page shows a list of available music Genres on the USB Media device.
To open Genres page:
Tap  Genres  tab.
Tap any Genre name from the list.
Videos
This page shows a list of available Video files in the USB Media device.
To open Videos page:
Tap  Videos  tab.
Tap any Video file from the list.
NOTE
Video is disabled while driving.
Folders
This page shows a list of available Folders that contain media files on the USB Media device.
To open Folders page:
Tap  Folders  tab.
Tap any Folder name from the list.
NOTE
Only Folders containing media files are displayed on screen.
USB Search
This feature can be used to search for any media content in the USB media device by pressing the Search icon.
To Search a file in USB Media:
Tap  Search    icon.
Type Media name in the  Search  field.
Tap  Search .
NOTE
Search icon and keyboard will be disabled while driving.
Browser
The Browser allows the driver and passengers to browse the Internet from the vehicle’s touchscreen. The vehicle must be connected to either a Wi-Fi access point or have an active eSim subscription to launch the browser.
NOTE
The Web Browser requires a Wi-Fi or cellular connection, local carrier charges will apply.
If the gear mode is in Park (P), you can use the web browser in full screen.
If the gear mode is in Drive (D), Neutral (N) or Reverse (R), you cannot use the web browser.
To launch the Browser/Internet App:
On the touchscreen, tap  App Library   .
Tap  Internet   .

## Car Control Area

Car Control Area
The Car Control Area is located on the left side of the Infotainment screen and displays vehicle and system status information along with providing access or adjustments to key vehicle controls. The Car Control Area replaces many of the displays and controls traditionally supplied through an instrument cluster or physical switches and buttons. Key features of the Car Control Area are listed in Display Overview.
Display Overview
Widgets
Swipe left and right to switch the widget view.
Charging gun unlock
Tap to Unlock Charge Port - See > Charging Instructions >   Charging Instructions  .
Warning lights and indicators
Displays all critical vehicle Alert Telltales and Status lights
Speedometer
Displays current Speed of the vehicle
Regen view
Display the working status of regenerative braking.
Time
Display the current time in the selected region.
Battery status
Display the status of the battery (remaining battery, available for travel)
TCS status (if available)
Tap to turn ON/OFF TCS
Drive mode
Displays the selected Drive Mode
READY indicator light
The indicator light comes on, indicating that the vehicle is ready for driving.
Gear selected
Displays current selected Gear
Vehicle alerts
Displays all critical vehicle Alert Messages
Warning Lights and Indicators
All important vehicle system related warnings and alerts are shown on the Infotainment screen display in the lower section of Car Control Area. ﻿Tap on the pop-up to view further detail of each warning. See >   Vehicle Alerts  .
In addition to a warning notification, a corresponding telltale may also illuminate in the upper section of the Car Control Area. Telltales will stay illuminated until the vehicle fault is repaired or resolved.
Telltale Icons:
Position Lights
Low Beam
Turn Indicator/Hazard Lights
Vehicle Ready to Drive
High Beam
ABS Malfunction
Park Brake Malfunction
TCS OFF
Low Power
Safety Warnings
Parking Brake Applied
Brake System Faults
EV System Malfunction
Airbag Malfunction
Seatbelt Reminder
Vehicle Alerts
The Vehicle Alerts page shows all vehicle related alerts and warning messages that are currently present on the vehicle. The Vehicle Alerts page also provides additional information or recommended user actions associated with each vehicle warning.
When a vehicle alert is triggered, it is displayed as a notification below the Car Control Area, along with a matching telltale light.
To view Vehicle Alerts:
Tap the  Popup Notification    below the Car Control Area
OR
Tap  App Library    >  Service   .
Tap  Alert center   , enter the alarm center interface  .
Tap  Clear All    to delete all alert information.

## Phone & Projection

Phone (if equipped)
After the vehicle is connected to Bluetooth, it can make and answer calls hands-free on the infotainment screen.
A compatible Bluetooth phone must be connected to use the phone app.
CAUTION
To minimize distraction while driving, perform following while vehicle is parked:
Complete pairing of all mobile devices.
Familiarize yourself with all system functionality and controls.
Organize contacts and call lists.
To Launch the Phone App:
Tap App Library   > Phone App  .
Using the Phone App
The following pages are available on the phone app:
Recents – Shows entire call history
Contacts – Lists all available contacts from the phone
Keypad – Allows manual dialing of phone numbers
NOTE
The Phone App supports phone contact book synchronization.
Use buttons to control Phone App functions (if equipped)
Incoming call: Short press to Accept call; Long press to Reject call.
During an Active call / Single call: Short/Long press to End Active Call.
In the “Recent Calls” list: Short/long press to make the nearest outgoing call.
2 Active calls: Short/Long press to End Current Call & Switch to second call.
During an Outgoing call: Short / Long press to End Outgoing Call.
1 Active call + 1 Incoming call: Short press to Accept Incoming Call and put 1 st Call on Hold;Long press to Reject 2nd call.
Phone App General Overview
Recents
To view Recents call list, tap Recents on the Phone App. To initiate a call, tap on the number in the list.
Types of Call Icons
Incoming Call
Declined or Missed Call
Outgoing Call
Frequency of the Call type
Contacts
To view phone contacts, tap Contacts on the Phone App. The contacts stored in the paired phone will be synced to the vehicle’s contact list. The contact list is synced each time the phone is connected to the system.
To search for a Contact:
Tap Search   icon on the contacts page.
Enter Contact Name/Number in the Search field.
Tap Search.
NOTE
Previously searched contacts will be displayed in recent searches.
The last 10 recent searches are displayed in the recent list below the search text field.
Keypad
Dial the phone number manually using the keypad.
To call a number, enter the phone number in the text field using the keypad. If the number entered matches with a saved contact, it will show the contact details on the screen. Tap the desired Contact to call that contact.
NOTE
Pressing and holding “0” will enter “+” in the text box.
Incoming Call
When receiving an incoming call, the caller ID will appear on the Infotainment screen. If the contact is saved in your phone, the person’s name and number along with the Avatar (if available) is also displayed.
To answer an incoming call, tap the Green Accept button on the Infotainment screen. To decline an incoming call, tap the Red Decline button on screen.
Incoming Call Banner
When receiving a new incoming call, an Incoming Call notification will appear on the Infotainment screen. The notification will contain a caller ID along with Accept and Decline buttons. Taping on the notification will take you to the incoming call window.
While a single call is active, a Second Call can be answered by tapping the green Accept button on the Incoming Call Banner. The first call will automatically be put on Hold.
Tap red Decline button on the screen to decline an Incoming Call over an active call.
Active Call/Single Call
While a call is active, the call duration and contact details are shown.
Expand Keypad
End Call
Mute Call
Transfer to device
Call Duration
NOTE
If you exit the Active call window to use other Apps or go to the Home screen, the active call window minimizes and docks a card on top of the Infotainment screen.
USB Ports
The vehicle is equipped with a USB interface, located next to the central storage area below the central control screen.
1 Type – C Port.
NOTE
The port can be used for transmitting data and charging devices.
CAUTION
Connecting devices using a USB hub is not recommended. This can prevent connected devices from charging or from being recognized by the Infotainment System.
WARNING
To avoid vehicle damage, disconnect all USB cables from the vehicle when not in use. USB cables left plugged into the vehicle, unconnected to a device, could be damaged or cause an electrical short if the unconnected end comes in contact with liquids or another power source such as the accessory power outlet.
Android Auto™﻿ (if available)
Android Auto™ is used to mirror features of an Android device, such as a smartphone, on the vehicle’s Infotainment screen. Android Auto™ can be launched on the Infotainment screen when a compatible device is connected.
NOTE
Android Auto™ is provided by Google and is subject to Google’s terms and conditions. Local data plan rates may apply.
Connecting to Android Auto™
Android Auto™ can be launched by connecting a compatible device either via a USB cable.
NOTE
The initial connection between the vehicle and an Android Auto™-compatible device can only be performed when the vehicle is in Park (P). Subsequent connections can be made by following the instructions on the Android Auto™-compatible device.
To ensure stable operation of Android Auto™, please use a USB Type-C cable (USB 3.0 or higher) from reputable brands to guarantee high data transfer speeds and a smooth user experience.
Connecting for the First Time via USB Cable:
Connect a compatible device to the vehicle via a USB cable.
Tap  Start  to launch Android Auto™.
CAUTION
Connecting devices using a USB hub is not recommended.
To launch Android Auto™:
Connect the android device to the vehicle via a USB cable.
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Android Auto™   .
Android Auto™ can be launched pop-up after connecting with USB.
To disconnect Android Auto™:
Disconnect the USB cable from the phone or the vehicle.
Disconnect from Device Settings.
Apple CarPlay™﻿ (if available)
Apple CarPlay™ is used to mirror features of an iOS device, such as a smartphone, on the vehicle’s Infotainment screen. Apple CarPlay™ can be launched on the Infotainment screen when a compatible device is connected.
NOTE
Apple CarPlay™ is provided by Apple and is subject to Apple’s Terms and Conditions. Local data plan rates may apply.
Connecting to Apple CarPlay™
Apple CarPlay™ can be launched by connecting a compatible device either via a USB cable.
NOTE
To connect Apple CarPlay™ to the vehicle, follow the instructions on your Apple CarPlay™-compatible device..
To ensure stable operation of Apple CarPlay™ , please use a USB Type-C cable (USB 3.0 or higher) from reputable brands to guarantee high data transfer speeds and a smooth user experience.
Connecting for the First Time via USB Cable:
Connect a compatible device to the vehicle via a USB cable.
Tap  Start  to launch Apple Carplay™.
CAUTION
Connecting devices using a USB hub is not recommended.
To launch Apple Carplay™:
Connect the android device to the vehicle via a USB cable.
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Apple Carplay™   .
Apple Carplay™ can be launched pop-up after connecting with USB.
To disconnect Apple Carplay™:
Disconnect the USB cable from the phone or the vehicle.

## VinFast App

Overview and Key Features
The VinFast App is a mobile application that provides various useful services for VinFast vehicles.
The information about the VinFast App’s features in this user guide is for reference only. The actual interface and functions may vary depending on the region, vehicle model, and release time.
Some of the highlights of the VinFast App may include:
Viewing battery charging status and vehicle condition.
Using remote control features such as the air conditioning system, door locks, etc.
Searching for charging station information, scheduling service appointments, or requesting roadside assistance.
Planning trips and sending them directly to the vehicle (if available).
Viewing the current vehicle status.
Accessing the user manual.
CAUTION
The VinFast App requires either a WiFi or cellular connection. Data fees may apply.
Registration and Sign In
To use the VinFast App, you need to download the app and register an account.
To download the App:
Visit the Apple App Store (iOS) or Google Play Store (Android).
Search for and download the VinFast App.
To register:
Open the app and tap Sign Up on the login page.
Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions.
Enter a Username (email address) and create a password.
Check your inbox for a verification email and confirm your registration.
Set up Fingerprint / Face ID (optional).
To Sign In:
Tap the VinFast icon on your phone to open the app.
Enter your registered email and password.
Forgotten Password:
If you forget your password, you can reset it by:
Tapping Forgot Password at the bottom of the login page.
Entering your registered email address.
Tapping Reset Password.
Checking your email and following the instructions to create a new password.
Vehicle and User Management
Guest Homepage
Before owning a VinFast vehicle, you can use the app to explore detailed specifications and services. When you launch the app and register, the guest home page will appear.
Linking VinFast App with a vehicle
Vehicle Owner
When purchasing a VinFast vehicle, the dealer will assist you in creating a VinFast ID, which identifies you as the vehicle owner.
Use the email address registered with your VinFast ID when creating your account in the VinFast App for automatic linking to your vehicle.
If the vehicle information does not sync automatically in the app or if your vehicle is not linked to your account, please contact your VinFast dealer for support.
For Secondary Drivers
You can also add or remove secondary drivers to use the VinFast App.
Contact the vehicle owner and ask to be added as a driver.
The owner will use Role Management to add the additional driver’s ccount to their vehicle.
The additional driver should provide the same email address they used to register the VinFast App.
The vehicle owner will send an invitation for the additional driver to add a vehicle.
The additional driver may:
Access and control owner’s vehicle using the VinFast App.
Add / Remove one additional driver account.
Home - VinFast ID. Tap on General Info on the Guest Homepage for more information.
Overview of the Owner’s Home Page
The home page provides users with key features, including:
Current vehicle information
Remote control (if available)
Battery and charging status
Driving assistance (if available)
Vehicle settings
Vehicle services
Notifications
Switching between owned vehicles
Current Vehicle Information
Displays an overview of the vehicle, including:
Battery capacity
Estimated driving range
Vehicle status (parked or in motion)
Total mileage
NOTE
These details may vary depending on the vehicle model or market.
Remote Control (if available)
If supported, this feature allows quick access and control of certain vehicle settings, such as: Air conditioning control, door locking/unlocking.
NOTE
Features may differ based on the vehicle model or market.
Battery and Charging
The VinFast App provides battery and charging status to help you monitor and manage your vehicle efficiently.
To access Battery and Charging details: Tap Battery & Charging from the home page
Battery & Charging Page Displays:
Charging target
Battery level (%)
Charging status
Battery leasing information (if applicable)
Nearby charging stations and availability
To change the charging target (if available):
Tap Charging Level.
Use the slider to set a new target.
Tap Save.
Battery leasing (if available):
VinFast offers a battery leasing option for customers. This feature allows you to track leasing details.
Charging History:
Tap Charging History to view past charging sessions by date.
Each session includes:
Charging date & time
Charging cost
Driving Assistance (if available)
This feature is only applicable to vehicles equipped with advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS).
Vehicle Settings
Some features may not be available depending on your vehicle version and region.
Features include:
Software updates (if available)
Vehicle information
Virtual assistant (if available)
Driving data
Vehicle Software Updates
You will receive a notification when a new software update is available. Check notifications or go to Vehicle Software Updates for details.
Virtual Assistant (if available)
The virtual assistant allows you to control the vehicle using voice commands.
Open the Virtual Assistant section. Add a new command or select a suggested command.
Vehicle Information
Provides details related to your vehicle.
Driving statistic
Driving statistic includes:
Distance
Energy
Energy electricity
Services
Some vehicle support services may not be available, depending on your vehicle version and market.
Available services:
Service booking
Roadside assistance
Vehicle alert
Test drive
Service booking
The VinFast App allows easy scheduling of service appointments.
To book a service:
Tap Book Service in the Vehicle Services section.
Fill in the required information and follow the instructions.
A confirmation notification will appear in the app.
Your request details will be stored in the Notifications section.
Roadside Assistance
The VinFast App allows you to request roadside assistance directly from your mobile device.
To request roadside assistance
Tap Roadside Assistance in the Vehicle Services section.
Tap Create A Request.
Fill in the required information and follow the instructions.
A confirmation notification will be displayed in the app.
Vehicle Alerts
You can check for any vehicle warnings in the VinFast App. Even if someone else is driving the car, you will receive alerts about any detected issues.
Based on the type of warning, the app may suggest:
Booking a service appointment
Requesting roadside assistance
Referring to the user manual with a direct link
To check for vehicle alerts:
Tap Vehicle Alerts in the Vehicle Services section.
A list of current alerts will appear (if any).
Tap an alert for more details.
Follow the prompts to book a service, request roadside assistance, or view the relevant user manual section.
All actions related to vehicle alerts will be synced with your vehicle.
Test Drive
The app provides an interface for booking test drives for VinFast vehicles.
Notifications
Please note that app functionality may vary depending on your country, vehicle model, or app updates. The VinFast App may send notifications and messages at any time.
Notification Types:
Vehicle alerts
Transaction activities
Messages from VinFast
To access notifications:
From the Home Page, tap the notifications icon.  .
Use the search bar to find specific notifications or browse the list.
Filter notifications by type.
Switching Between Owned Vehicles
This feature allows users to switch between multiple owned vehicles and view their details.
To switch vehicles: Tap the switch icon in the top corner of the screen.  .
Maps
Maps overview
1
Search bar
2
Quick search
3
Find my car
4
Location tracking
5
Map view
Find Address
Search for your destination by entering an address in the search bar or selecting from quick search suggestions.
Find My Car
To locate your vehicle, tap the Find My Car button. The app will pinpoint its location and display key details about your car.
Map View
In addition to the default view, you can select additional map features such as:
Satellite view
Traffic conditions
Dark mode
Shopping
This section provides information about:
Your orders
Current VinFast vehicle models
Car accessories
You can easily track your order status, explore the latest VinFast models, and find suitable accessories for your vehicle.
Account
This section provides key features such as:
Promotional offers
Payments
Settings
Help & Support
My Vehicles
Payments
You can choose to pay via credit card or ATM card.
To add a payment card:
Go to Payment Methods.
Tap Add Card.
Select your card type.
Enter the required details.
Tap Save.
NOTE
You can add multiple cards and set a primary payment card.
To make a payment:
Tap Bill List.
Select an invoice to pay (Charging / Battery subscription).
Tap Pay and follow the instructions.
A confirmation notification will be sent after successful payment.
NOTE
If you have a pending invoice, a payment reminder will appear on the home screen.
Settings
Users can customize and access the following key functions:
Feature
Description
Setting
Customize language, measurement units, notifications
Driver Management
Transfer vehicle ownership, add secondary drivers
Account Information
Edit owner name and phone number
Password & Security
Reset password, delete account, login options
Help & Support
This section includes:
FAQs
Support Requests
About App
Owner Manual
Terms & Conditions

## Climate Control System

Climate Controls
The climate control system cools, heats﻿, filters, and dehumidifies the air in the passenger compartment. Generally, the system works most efficiently when the windows are closed.
Climate Controls Overview
Press to turn ON/OFF the internal and external circulation
Rotation: Adjusting the air conditioning temperature
Press to turn ON/OFF  A/C air conditioning cooling
Rotation: Adjust the air conditioning blowing rate
Rotation: Adjust the blowing mode
Cooling/Air Conditioning
To turn ON/OFF the Air Conditioning system:
Press the A/C   button to turn on the air conditioning cooling, and the indicator light below the button will light up.
Pressing the A/C   button again will turn off the air conditioning cooling, and the indicator light will also turn off accordingly.
NOTE
Water may drip from underneath the vehicle when it is in cooling mode. Traces of water on the ground are normal and are not a sign of leakage or malfunction.
If no cooling is required, switch off the A/C cooling system to increase range efficiency.
If no cooling is required, switch off the A/C cooling system to increase range efficiency.
The A/C setting needs to be initialized when turning ON the vehicle.
Air Vents
Without steering wheel button
With steering wheel button
Windscreen defog vents
Front side air vent
Front footwell air vent
NOTE
The air distribution can be adjusted by rotating the blowing mode button, see > Climate Control System >   Air Temperature, Speed and Distribution  .
Adjustable Vents
To adjust the driver and passenger side air vents
Push the air outlet adjustment switch up, down, left and right to adjust the direction of the air outlet.
Push the air outlet adjustment switch downwards to the maximum position to close.
To adjust the middle air outlet
Push the air outlet adjustment switch up, down, left and right to adjust the direction of the air outlet.
Push the air outlet adjustment switch outward to the maximum position to close.
CAUTION
Do not place objects over the air vents.
Ensure the air intakes at the base of the windshield are clear of ice, snow or any other debris such as leaves. Blockage of the intakes may prevent air flow into the vehicle affecting the performance of the climate controls.
Air Temperature, Speed & Distribution
Temperature
You can adjust the air conditioning temperature according to your comfort needs.
To adjust the cabin temperature﻿:
Rotate the knob counterclockwise to lower the air conditioning outlet temperature. Rotate the knob clockwise to increase the air conditioning outlet temperature.
Note
In cold conditions it will take a few minutes for the heater to warm up and reach desired temperature.
Air Flow
Rotate the knob clockwise to increase the air conditioning wind speed. Rotate the knob counterclockwise to reduce the air conditioning wind speed.
If the knob is turned to the OFF position, the air conditioning system will shut down.
Note
After the air conditioning wind speed increases, the air conditioning noise will also increase.
Air Distribution
To adjust Air Distribution:
Rotate the knob to select the corresponding blowing modes, stop the knob at the desired mode.
Blowing mode:
Face blowing mode
Face blowing mode & Foot blowing mode
Foot blowing mode
Foot blowing mode & Front windshied
Front windshield
Front Windscreen Defrost and Defog
The front windscreen can be defrosted or defogged using this function.
To turn ON front windshield defog:
Rotate the knob to the   icon position to activate the defrosting and foot blowing modes of the front windshield.
Rotate the knob to the   icon position to activate the defrosting of the front windshield.
To turn OFF front windshield defog:
Rotate the knob out of positions   and   icons to turn off the defrosting function of the front windshield.
WARNING
For safety reasons, please makesure that the front windshield is free of ice, snow, or fog before driving.
CAUTION
Always use Defrost/Defog function to melt the ice. The windshield and/or wiper blade may be damaged if wipers are used with ice or snow accumulation.
An ice/snow scraper can also be used to clean the windshield. Be gentle in using the scraper so as not to damage the windshield by scratching the glass surface.
NOTE
In warm and very humid ambient air conditions, the windshield may mist up from the outside when cold air is directed at it. If the windshield mists up from the outside, activate windshield wiper and defrost.
Cabin Air Filter
The Climate Control System filters the incoming air to remove dust, pollen, and contaminants. Replace the Cabin Air Filter as per the specified maintenance schedule, for better performance. See > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts >   Cabin Air Filter   for replacement instructions.
While driving through very dusty or polluted air, it is recommended to use the Recirculation mode to reduce the amount of contaminants entering the vehicle cabin. See > Climate Control System >   Recirculation Mode  .
NOTE
Regular cleaning of the vehicle interior is recommended, as this will help maintain the Cabin Air Filter and Climate Control System.
Recirculation Mode
Recirculation mode circulates air within the vehicle’s cabin.
To switch between internal/external loops:
Press the internal circulation   button to switch the air conditioning internal circulation function, and the indicator light below the button will turn ON.
Press the internal loop   button again to switch the external loop function of the air conditioner, and the indicator light below the button will turn OFF.
WARNING
Avoid keeping Recirculation mode ON and Cooling OFF as it will increase the humidity inside the vehicle cabin causing the windshield and windows to fog up. This will result in bad visibility which may result in an accident causing severe injuries.
CAUTION
Do not keep Recirculation mode ON in normal conditions as, the quality of air inside the cabin may deteriorate over time due to the lack of fresh air.
NOTE
To ensure optimal performance of the climate controls system, keep the exterior air intake vents clean at all times.
Climate Control System Maintenance
Air Intake
The exterior air intake vents located in front of the windshield must be kept clean to allow air flow into the Climate Control System. Remove leaves, debris, dirt, and snow.
Passenger compartment air filter maintenance
The air filter can effectively filter out impurities in the air, ensuring the normal operation of the air conditioning system. The air filter has a long service life and should be replaced regularly. For instructions on how to replace the cabin air filter, See > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts >   Cabin Air Filter  .
NOTE
If the vehicle is driven in highly polluted or dusty conditions, it is recommended to inspect and replace the filter more often.
Regular operation of the AC System
The air conditioning (AC) needs to be used for a few minutes each month, regardless of the weather and time of the year. This is to ensure that components within the Climate Control System remain lubricated.
Servicing of the Climate Control System
In order to obtain the best performance from the Climate Control System, it must be maintained properly and periodically. Refer to the Vehicle Maintenance Schedule for details, see > Maintenance Schedule >   Maintenance Schedule Overview  .
The maintenance includes the following:
Heating and cooling performance check.
Inspection for any leakage.
Replacement of the refrigerant and pressure testing, if required.
Cleaning of the condenser and evaporator drain tube.
Air filter replacement.
WARNING
Servicing must be completed by a trained and certified technician. The refrigerant is toxic and must be contained. Failure to follow the above may lead to serious injury or death.
CAUTION
Before any connection is disconnected, the refrigerant must be removed and recovered from the system by a trained and certified technician.
Use only the approved refrigerant and air-conditioning compressor oil. Using non approved material may lead to permanent damage to the vehicle.
Venting refrigerants directly to the atmosphere is harmful to the environment and may also create unsafe conditions based on inhalation, combustion, frostbite, or other health-based concerns.

## Settings

Settings Overview
Use Settings App to control and adjust some of the infotainment and vehicle features and functions.
Following is the list of available Settings menu:
Vehicle and Drive App
Vehicle driving functions can be set:
Car Modes
Lights and Wipers
Parking and Camera
Driving Assistance
Security or Locking.
Driver Information
Setting App
Can set and view general vehicle functions:
Device
Sound
Display
General
Software Update.
To access Settings App:
To enter the vehicle settings:
Tap  Vehicle and Drive App    on the Infotainment screen.
To enter the general settings:
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap  Settings   .
Search Settings
Use the search feature to quickly navigate to a desired settings page by entering a keyword.
To search a setting:
Tap  Search    icon, from the Vehicle and Drive Settings or General Settings App.
Enter Name of Setting in the search field.
Tap  Search .
Vehicle and Drive Settings
You can set and adjust the following vehicle functions in the Vehicle and Driving App:
Car Modes
Lights and Wipers
Parking and Camera
Driving Assistance
Security and Locking
Driver Information
To access Vehicle and Drive Settings:
To access the Vehicle and Driving App, see > Settings>   Settings Overview  .
Settings interface
Settings menu
Car Mode
Drive Mode : Select the desired driving mode.
Creep Mode : The vehicle slowly moves forward when the brake pedal is released.
Traction Mode
Lights and Wipers
Wipers Service Mode : Sets windshield wipers in service position to change wiper blades. This feature is only available if the brake is not pressed to start after unlocking the vehicle.
Parking and Camera (If equipped)
Dynamic Direction Guidelines : Once activated, shows dynamic guidelines on the camera rear view.
Obstacle Warning Overlay : Once activated, highlights detected obstacles on the camera view.
Parking Sound Feedback : Parking Sound Feedback: Once activated, plays sound when an obstacle is detected while parking the car.
Driving Assistance
Overspeed Warning : Provides a visual and audible warning when the vehicle exceeds the selected speed limit.
Security and Locking
Anti-theft Alarm : When the vehicle is in the anti-theft alarm state, select the feedback type -  Light/Horn/Both .
Lock/Unlock Feedback : Select feedback type when vehicle is locked / unlocked -  Light/Horn/Both .
Speed Sensitive Door Lock : After selecting the speed value, it will automatically lock when the speed reaches the set value.
Auto Unlock : Enables automatic door unlocking when the vehicle is in Park (P).
Driver Information
Trip information display settings.
Device Connect
Use Device Settings to manage connection between the vehicle and portable media devices. Device Settings enables you to:
Search for and pair a new phone or media device
Switch between connected devices
Disconnect or delete existing devices
Manage connection settings for individual devices
To access Device Settings:
Tap  App Library    >  Settings   .
Tap  Device Settings   .
A device can be connected by any of the following methods:
Via Bluetooth - Go to Bluetooth settings on your device and select “ Vinfast 3 ”.
Via USB port - See >   USB Ports and Power Outlets  .
Via Device Connect - Select an available device from Device List.
The system will request confirmation of a  Password  between the Bluetooth device and Infotainment screen when pairing a Bluetooth device for the first time. Please check for popups on the device.
When connecting a Bluetooth device for the first time you will be asked to confirm the Pass Key between the device and Infotainment screen. Please check your device for Popups.
NOTE
The default name of the vehicle is “VinFast 3”.
To pair a device via Bluetooth, select Park (P) to make sure the vehicle completely stops.
Device List Overview
Device List will show following:
Connected device
Devices available to connect
Previously connected devices
Current connection type
To Disconnect a device:
Tap the  Three dot    icon on the right side of device name.
Tap  Disconnect .
To Forget a device:
Tap the  Three dot    icon on the right side of device name.
Tap  Forget .
Advanced Settings Overview
Use Advanced Settings to enable  Android Auto  - Enables all connected devices.
Wi-Fi
Connecting to Wi Fi allows for vehicle software upgrades.
To access Wi-Fi Settings﻿:
Tap  App Library    >  Settings   .
Tap  Wi-Fi Settings   .
To turn Wi-Fi ON/OFF:
Tap the on/off button in the upper right corner.
To connect to a Wi-Fi network:
Select the available network from the list.
Enter network  Password  (if required).
After a successful connection is established, the  connected  network will be shown in the Connected list.
To disconnect/forget a Wi-Fi network:
Tap Three dot   icon.
Tap  Disconnect/Forget .
To connect to a hidden Wi-Fi network:
Tap  Hidden Network .
Select  Security  type.
Enter N etwork name  and  Password .
Tap Connect.
The system will request confirmation of a  Password  between the Bluetooth device and Infotainment screen when pairing a Bluetooth device for the first time. Please check for popups on the device.
NOTE
Move the device closer to the Infotainment screen if a known Wi-Fi network does not appear in the list.
Sound
Use the Sound Settings to adjust the following:
Volume
Equalizer
To access the Sound Settings:
Tap  App Library    >  Settings   .
Tap  Sound Settings   .
Volume
The Volume settings can be changed for each of the following functions. Adjust the volume by using the slider controls.
To reset Sound Settings:
Tap  Reset All  button.
WARNING
Always pay attention to road and traffic conditions while driving.
Avoid using Infotainment screen while the vehicle is in motion, as it can cause distraction leading to an accident.
NOTE
When starting the vehicle, if the audio volume is high, the system will automatically decrease the volume to the Start-up Limit value. It is done to avoid scaring the driver.
Equalizer
Allows the selection of the speaker settings inside your car to optimize the listening experience by selecting predefined zones.
Slide to adjust Bass, Mid, Treble
Tap  Reset  button, Reset all equalizer settings.
Select the default equalizer for the system.
General
Use General Settings to manage the following:
Vehicle Information
Region (if available)
Displayed Language
Date & Time
Unit (if available)
eSim
To access the general Settings:
Tap  App Library    >  Settings   .
Tap  General Settings   .
Vehicle Information
Vehicle Information may display the following information about the Vehicle:
Model
Vehicle ﻿Colour
Next Service Due
Odometer (ODO)
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN)
Extended warranty date
To change the Vehicle Name:
Tap  General Settings    >  Vehicle Information .
Tap  Edit    icon.
Enter preferred vehicle name in the text field.
Tap  Change .
NOTE
A maximum of 15 characters are allowed for the vehicle name.
Region
Use Region settings to select the region in which you are located.
Displayed Language
Select the language displayed on the infotainment screen.
Date and Time
Date Format
Select preferred Date Format from the drop - down list
Time Format
Select preferred Time Format - 12h/24h
Auto Time Zone
Toggle the Auto Time Zone feature
Auto Date and Time
Toggle the Auto date/time feature
Unit
On this page, you can adjust the distance unit, temperature unit, tire pressure unit, and battery unit.
eSim
The data connection for Connected Infotainment services can be made through an embedded SIM card (eSIM card) installed in the vehicle.
For more information, see > Settings >   eSIM Settings  .
Software Update
You can use the software update function to update the software version of the infotainment screen.
To access the Software Update:
Tap  App Library    >  Settings   .
Tap  Software Update   .
To update software:
Confirm whether software updates are needed based on the actual display situation.
If no update is required, it will prompt that the software is already the latest version.
If updates are needed, please follow the prompted window to execute.
NOTE
If the software needs to be updated, a red dot will be displayed on the upper right side of the   Software Update icon.
Display Setting
You can set and adjust the vehicle display in the following:
Theme
Wallpaper
Brightness
To access the Display Setting:
Tap  App Library    >  Settings   .
Tap  Display Setting   .
NOTE
The theme will be stay the same if users change the theme, not come back to the default wallpaper. For example, user change the theme => After that, Change  the wallpaper => the theme still the same
eSIM
The eSIM App provides the current status of the cellular connection used to support the Infotainment System. It also provides a QR code to easily facilitate the purchase of additional data.
To access eSIM settings:
Tap  App Library    >  Settings App   .
Tap  General Settings   .
Overview
The following information may be available:
Signal
MNO (Mobile Network Operator)
Remaining Voice Package(Talk Time)
Free Package (Data)
Top-up Package
IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity)
ICCID (Integrated Circuit Card Identifier)
Reset Button
To reset the eSIM:
Tap on the  Reset  button.
There shall be a notification to inform if data network is available after reset
To purchase additional data:
Scan the QR code shown on the Infotainment screen.
Open the Data network Purchasing Page via your mobile device, follow the instructions on the screen.
After data is purchased, details will be updated on the eSIM page.

# Battery & Charging


## High Voltage Components

High Voltage Components Overview
AC Compressor
HV Heater
2in1 Unit (Power Distribution Unit, DC-DC Converter)
Charge Port
Motor Control Unit
eMotor
HV Battery
HV Wiring
WARNING
Avoid contact with any high voltage components even when the battery is low or discharged as this can lead to fire, electric shock which can cause serious injury or death.
In case of an unlikely event of vehicle fire, contact local emergency responders, immediately.
Do not try to remove or replace any high voltage components, cables or connectors as the high voltage system has no user serviceable parts.
NOTE
For ease of identification, high voltage cables and wiring will have an Orange/Red colour covering together with information labels.
Read and follow all instructions on the labels that are attached to the vehicle. These are provided for your safety.
CAUTION
Do not use high pressure washers when cleaning the underbody where the eMotor is located.

## Charging Instructions

Charging Equipment
The vehicle can be charged via a number of different charging devices. These include Mobile Charger, Charging Stations and Home Chargers. The charging devices must have the correct charging adapter to plug into the vehicle.
Charge Plug
The vehicle is equipped with CCS (Combined Charging System) connection. The available CCS connections are:
CCS2-DC
Portable Charger (if equipped)
The vehicle comes equipped with a mobile charger, located in the rear cargo compartment. Provide slow charging for vehicles by converting AC electricity into DC electricity.
The portable charger controller comes with a charging indicator light. Please refer to the label on the back of the portable charger or the user guide provided with the portable charger for reference.
To use mobile charger:
Park the vehicle correctly in a location where the charging gun can be powered on.
Plug the mobile charger into the 220V power supply socket.
Open the charging port cover, see > Charging Instructions >   Charging Instructions  .
Open the charging port cover 1 and insert the mobile charger 2 correctly into the charging port until you hear a “click” sound.
The vehicle will start charging, and charging information will be displayed on the infotainment screen.
If you need to stop charging midway, you can unlock the mobile charger by clicking the  Stop Charging  icon on the infotainment screen. See > Charging Instructions >   Charging Instructions  .
Pull the portable charger out of the charging port, install the charging port cover, and close the charging port cover.
NOTE
If the charging gun cannot be unlocked after clicking the button, you can unlock the portable charger through emergency unlocking. See > Charging Instructions >   Charging Instructions  .
Remove the portable charger from the 220V power socket and store it properly.
WARNING
Do not use power sockets that are significantly worn or damaged.
When charging, do not unplug the charging cable from the power socket.
Please charge in a relatively safe environment, avoid rain, water immersion, and keep away from sources of fire.
Do not allow children to engage in charging work.
After charging, do not disconnect the charging connection device when your hands are wet or standing in water on the ground.
NOTE
The mobile charger will not work without a ground connection. The wall socket requires a ground pin to connect to the mobile charger.This is required to safely ground the charging system and avoid short circuits.
For all indication light descriptions, refer to the label at the back of the mobile charger or the user guide provided with mobile charger.
Charging Stations
The vehicle can be charged at public charging stations. Charging stations may provide DC charging at various charging rates. Due to the variability between charging stations, it is critical to familiarize yourself with the operating instructions of each charging station correctly to prevent possible damage to the vehicle and to ensure safety.
Charge Station Identification
To ensure that you charge your vehicle with only compatible charging equipment, the charge port includes an identification label identifying both the vehicle charging handle type and permissible charging voltage and current limits. Both the vehicle’s AC and DC charge connector type will be represented on this label by a charge type identifier as shown below:
Charge Connector Type
Charge Type Identifier
AC Charging
(Type 2)
DC Charging
(CCS2)
OR
WARNING
Always ensure the Charge Type Identifier of both the vehicle and charge station match for DC charging. Failure to use a suitable charge station may lead to damage to the vehicles high voltage battery or charging system.
Important Safety Warnings regarding Charging
WARNING
Contact with a high voltage power source can lead to serious injury or death.
Do not touch the contacts on the charging equipment or in the charging port of the vehicle.
Never use damaged, faulty or modified charging equipment.
Never use an extension cord, adapter or power board with charging equipment.
Protect the charging socket and contacts from water or moisture and other liquids.
The charger can generate electromagnetic waves that can affect medical devices such as an implantable cardiac pacemaker.
Always confirm with the medical team and manufacturer whether charging the electric vehicle will impact the operation of the medical devices such as a cardiac pacemaker.
There should be no water or dust in the charging handle connector and plug. Always make sure they are clean before connecting to the charger and charging inlet. Failure to do so may cause electric shock when connecting the charging handle or even lead to a fire.
Be careful not to touch or insert anything in the charging outlet holes, charging port holes, and the charging handle holes when connecting the charging handle to the charging port in the vehicle.
Immediately stop charging if abnormal symptoms are detected such as odor or smoke.
If the charge cable outer conduit is damaged then immediately replace the charging cable to prevent electrical shock.
Charging Instructions
Electric vehicles are powered by batteries and motors which use electrical energy stored in a High Voltage Battery.﻿ The High Voltage Battery can be charged by any of the following methods:
You can use a portable charger to charge your electric vehicle from a grounded household outlet. However, when using this charger, the actual charging efficiency may differ from the efficiency rating indicated on the energy label.
Charging at stations is performed using direct current (DC) and is equipped with fixed DC charging cables. DC charging stations with higher current connections will provide faster charging.
WARNING
Chargers generate electromagnetic waves that can seriously affect medical electrical devices, such as implantable cardiac pacemakers. Consult your medical professional or pacemaker manufacturer to ensure that the charging of your electric vehicle will not impact the operation of your medical electrical devices.
Do not forcefully pull the charging handle from the charge port. It could result in dangerous electrical arcs, causing serious injury or death. Always follow the charging shut down process of the charging device and vehicle.
CAUTION
The vehicle must be charged with genuine VinFast charger to avoid unexpected damage.
NOTE
Time required to charge the vehicle depends on the ambient and battery temperature, the power level of the charger, the charge level of the battery, and the charger type.
The speed of the level III DC Charger may be reduced in some circumstances, particularly when the ambient temperature is high. Hence charging can take more time.
To charge the vehicle follow the process below and the instructions of the charging device:
Put the vehicle into Park (P).
Check if the charging device is compatible with the vehicle.
Open the charge port door.
NOTE
If a slow charging station is selected, please remove the car charging device in advance, connect the slow charging station port to the car charging device controller, and then insert the car charging device charging port into the vehicle charging port.
Fully insert the charging handle into the charge port, ensuring it is connected correctly.
Start the charging process at the charging device.
The charging handle will be automatically locked in the charge port during charging.
Observe the charging status on the vehicle Infotainment screen, and the charging device.
Lock the vehicle.
To stop charging, unlock the vehicle and follow the instructions on the charging device and on the vehicle Infotainment screen.
The locking pin in the charge port will automatically disengage once charging has stopped. This may take some time after charging has been requested to stop.
Remove the charging handle from the charge port and return it to the charging device.
Close the charge port door.
Further instructions and important information on charging can be found in this section.
Charge Port
The charging port door is located on the right rear side of the vehicle and is locked by the central locking system. Open the charging port door to access the charging port.
To Open the Charge Port Door:
To open the charge port door, put the vehicle in Park (P), and unlock the charge port door by pressing the charging port cover in the above shown location to open it.
NOTE
Due to freezing weather, it might be difficult to open the charge port door. Tap lightly on the door or remove any ice prior to attempting to open. Do not open the charge port door forcefully.
To plug in a charging handle
To insert the charging handle, hold the cable or plug firmly and push into the charge port until you hear a click. Ensure the connector is fully inserted and flush with the charge port. A poorly inserted connector may cause prolonged charge sessions or faults.
If you are using the mobile charger, plug it into the power outlet before plugging it into the charge port on the vehicle. Align the charging handle to the charge port and insert fully. A locking pin will hold the charging handle in place and charging will begin automatically.
After plugging in the charging handle:
The system will start to authenticate the charging station. The same will also display on the Infotainment screen.
After a successful authentication, the vehicle will start charging.
WARNING
Ensure that there is no water, dust, dirt or debris in the charging handle connector and plug. Connecting while there is water, dust, dirt or debris in the charging handle and plug may cause a fire or an electric shock.
Be careful not to touch or insert anything in the charging outlet holes, charge port holes, and the charging handle holes when connecting to the Charge Port in the vehicle.
Immediately stop charging, if abnormal symptoms are detected such as an odor or smoke.
If the cable coating is damaged then immediately replace the charging cable to prevent electrical shock.
CAUTION
Make sure the charging connector and charging plug are always clean and dry. Keep the charging cable away from moisture or water.
NOTE
If the battery temperature is high, there may be a slight delay before a charging session begins to allow the battery to cool down.
The charging will not start if the charging handle is not fully inserted and the locking pin is not engaged.
Refer to the Charging Faults section below for more information.
EV Charging Settings
For details on available EV Charge settings see >   EV Battery App  .
Vehicle Charging Status
The following types of charging status will be shown on the Infotainment screen after plugging in the charger:
Battery status    : displays remaining charging time, battery charge percentage, battery temperature, etc. See >   EV Battery App  .
Battery charging status view   .
Charging cable status
Stop charging    : To stop charging.
To stop charging from the Infotainment screen:
Tap  Stop Charging   .
Confirm by tapping  Stop Now .
A 10 second countdown timer will start. The charging handle can be detached from charge port once the countdown is over.
Charging will be stopped.
WARNING
Hold the charging handle and not the cable when connecting or removing the charging handle. Pulling the cable itself (without using the handle) may cause the internal wires to break, crack or get disconnected. This may cause electrical shock or fire.
During the charging process, the vehicle will automatically lock the charging handle. Do not use excessive force to pull out a locked charging handle, as this may cause serious injury, death or damage to the vehicle.
NOTE
In order to prevent ﻿unauthorised unplugging of the charging handle, the vehicle must be unlocked before the charging handle can be removed.
Air conditioning performance may reduce in some circumstances during charging, particularly during high ambient temperature and high charging current. This is normal to ensure the battery cooling is optimized to maintain battery longevity.
Manual Release of the Charging handle:
The charging handle is automatically locked in the charge port by a locking pin to prevent accidental or ﻿unauthorised disconnection. If the usual method for releasing the charging handle from the charge port (using the Stop Charging release button) does not work, carefully follow the steps detailed below:
Ensure that the vehicle has stopped charging by checking the charging screen on the Infotainment screen. If necessary, tap  Stop Charging .
Turn the vehicle OFF and remove the key from the vehicle.
Open the liftgate and lift the rear floor.
Use a tool (for example a screwdriver, hook, pliers) to pull the charge port’s release cable   to release the pin that locks the charging handle.
Pull the charging handle from the charge port.
NOTE
Use an appropriate tool to pull the release cable.
To close the Charge Port Door:
Close the charge port door and press in the location shown above to lock it.
CAUTION
Ensure the charging handle and cable are put away correctly, so that they do not cause a tripping hazard, or get caught in or damaged by the vehicle.
Do not drop the charging connector (charging handle). The charging connector can be damaged.
Do not remove the wall plug or mobile charger control box from the wall while the vehicle is charging. Doing so may cause the outlet and cord to get damaged.
Charging Faults
Charging Authentication Fault
An authentication fault may occur after connecting the charging handle to the vehicle. An authentication fault may occur when :
The charge station is not compatible with the vehicle or
The charging handle or charge station is damaged or not ready to charge.
If an authentication fault occurs, a message will be displayed on the Infotainment screen. Disconnecting and reconnecting the charging handle or using an alternate charger may correct the authentication issue. Follow all messages shown on the Infotainment screen.
If charging does not commence once the charging handle is connected to the vehicle, follow the below process.
Remove the charging handle from the charge port
Close the charge port door
Ensure the vehicle is OFF
Lock the vehicle
Wait for 10 minutes for the vehicle to enter Sleep mode
Unlock the vehicle
Open the charge port door
Reconnect the charging handle
Check Charging Status
If the issue persists, contact the nearest VinFast Service ﻿Centre.
Charging handle Fails to Release
If the charging handle can not be removed from the charge port after a charging session, the locking pin may not have released from the charging handle. If the charging handle fails to release, a notification will be displayed on the Infotainment screen and instructions will be provided to manually release the locking pin.
For more information, see > Manual Release of the Charging handle.
Battery subscription Faults (if available)
If an issue exists with a user’s Battery subscription account then vehicle charge limits may be reduced until outstanding payments are received. Outstanding invoices can be viewed and actioned via the VinFast app. For further information contact VinFast Customer Support.

## Battery Information

Battery Information
The vehicle has a High Voltage (HV) battery mounted beneath the vehicle’s floor and a 12V Low Voltage (LV) battery located under the hood/in the front compartment area.﻿ If the 12V or HV battery needs inspection or service, contact your nearest VinFast Service ﻿Centre.
Ensuring the battery system is in good condition will assist in providing optimum performance. It is important to check the battery, the state of charge, and take proper care of the battery system.
CAUTION
Please charge the vehicle immediately if the high voltage battery state of charge is less than 5% (Red battery icon in status bar).
Avoid discharging the battery to 0% as this may cause the battery health to degrade more quickly.
NOTE
When the vehicle is powered on but in a stationary state and not connected to an external charger. The energy of the high-voltage battery will be consumed to perform routine checks on the low-voltage system and charge the 12V battery.
HV Battery Subscription Plan Management
Information regarding the HV battery subscription plan (if applicable) can be viewed on the VinFast App, or by visiting the VinFast Auto website or the nearest VinFast Service Center.
EV Battery App
The EV Battery App shows detailed information about the Vehicle’s High Voltage Battery and Charging System.
To access the EV Battery App:
Tap  App Library    >  EV App   .
OR
Tap  Battery status  on the driver view.
Charging Status
Charging status is shown on the EV Battery App as shown below.
Battery status
Battery charging status view
Charging cable status
Stop charging
Charging Settings
To access Charging Settings:
Tap  App Library    >  EV App   .
Tap  Battery Settings   .
Settings below may be available:
Charging Target
Charge Current Limit
Battery Level Reminder
Charging Target
Charging Target is the maximum state of charge (%) the EV battery is allowed to reach before the charger automatically turns OFF.
To set the Charging Target:
Tap  App Library    >  EV App   .
Tap  Battery Settings   .
Select the  Charging Target .
Press and slide the slider left/right to set desired charging target.
Battery Charge Current Limit
Adjust the maximum current when charging with an DC charging station. This setting is only available when charging is in process and will be saved by location.
To set the Charge current limit:
Tap  App Library    >  EV App   .
Tap  Battery Settings   .
Select the  Charge Current Limit  and adjust the setting by tapping + / - on the Infotainment screen.
Battery Level Reminder
Battery level reminder provides a notification on Infotainment screen, once the battery state of charge reaches the set level. The default value for this setting is 50%.
To adjust the Battery Level Reminder:
Tap  App Library    >  EV App   .
Tap  Battery Settings   .
Select the  Battery Level Reminder  and use the slider to adjust the warning threshold.
Once reached, a notification will be provided on the Infotainment screen along with an option to find a charging station.
Battery Care
The HV battery is maintenance free. Always pay attention to the battery status and never allow it to fully discharge. Even when the vehicle is not being driven, the battery discharges very slowly to power the on board electronics. On average, the battery discharges at a rate of approximately 1% per day. The discharge rate may vary depending on environmental factors (such as cold weather), configuration, and selected settings. If the vehicle is not used for long periods of time (approx. 2-3 weeks), ensure that the vehicle’s HV battery is always above 30% (preferable between 30% to 60%).
If the high voltage battery needs to be inspected, tested, or replaced, it should only be done by a trained technician. If the 12-volt or high voltage battery needs to be serviced, contact your nearest VinFast Service Center. They will be able to provide information about how the high voltage battery can be recycled.
Operational factors that may affect battery lifespan
During vehicle operation, certain driving habits may subject the high-voltage battery to elevated temperatures and high electrical loads for extended periods, which may affect battery life and performance.
Frequent sudden acceleration
Repeated hard acceleration or aggressive throttle input can cause the battery to deliver high current over a short period, increasing battery temperature and stress on the battery cells.
Recommendation: Accelerate gradually and drive smoothly to help maintain stable battery operation and extend battery life.
Parking in High-Temperature Environments for Extended Periods
High ambient temperatures, especially when the vehicle is parked under direct sunlight for extended periods, can increase battery temperature and accelerate battery aging
Recommendation: Whenever possible, park the vehicle in a shaded, well-ventilated area to help protect the battery.
Operating the Vehicle with the Battery at High Temperature for Extended Periods
Continuous operation at elevated battery temperatures can accelerate side reactions inside the battery cells, reducing battery lifespan.
Recommendation: Reduce aggressive acceleration, drive gently, and allow sufficient time for the battery to cool down when necessary.
WARNING
Maintain a safe distance from the vehicle in case of damage to the high voltage battery or other high voltage components as there is a high risk of electric shock, overheating, or fire. Failure to comply may cause serious injuries or death.
If the vehicle is damaged from flood, crash, fire, or other event, it should be inspected by an ﻿authorised service technician as soon as possible. The vehicle should be kept outside until it has been inspected at a distance of at least 15m (50ft) from any structure or anything that can burn. Open a window or door of the vehicle to allow air to circulate inside.
CAUTION
Charge the vehicle immediately if the battery state of charge is less than 5% (Red battery bar on the Infotainment screen).
Never let the battery state of charge reach 0% as this may degrade the battery more quickly.
Storing the vehicle for more than 6 months without carrying out necessary maintenance may permanently damage the HV battery.
Do not store or park the vehicle near heat source due to risk of catching fire, which can damage the battery and vehicle.
Do not store the vehicle in area which may flood as flood may damage the battery and the vehicle.
NOTE
The HV battery SOC shall always be more than 30% for storage If you plan to store the vehicle for 3~6 months, battery maintenance is recommended.
If the vehicle is damaged from flood, crash, fire, or any other event, it may be necessary to have the vehicle inspected, and the battery may need to be replaced. If the battery is involved in a fire, it may need to be replaced and returned to manufacturer for investigation.
If the vehicle is unresponsive and does not unlock, open, or charge, the 12V battery may be discharged. In this situation, try jump starting the 12V battery. If the vehicle is still unresponsive, contact VinFast Service ﻿Centre.
Charge the vehicle HV battery to 100% SOC at least every month. For any concerns, please contact a VinFast Service ﻿Center.
Temperature Limits
Avoid exposing the vehicle to ambient temperatures above 45°C or below -20°C. Ideally, store the vehicle in a climate controlled garage if extreme ambient temperatures are expected. Failure to follow this temperature recommendation may permanently degrade battery performance.
Low Power Consumption Mode
To protect against complete HV battery discharge, the vehicle enters a low power consumption mode when the charge level is very low. In this mode, the HV battery stops supporting the on-board electronics to slow the discharge rate. Once this low power consumption mode is active, it is important to charge the vehicle as soon as possible to avoid possible battery damage.
When the low-power consumption mode is active, the 12V battery is no longer charged and can completely discharge. If this occurs, the 12V battery will need to be charged or replaced before commencing any HV charging of the vehicle. To conserve energy, select the ECO driving mode from Car Control Area.
To select ECO driving mode:
Adjusting ECO driving mode, see > Drive Systems >   Drive modes  .
CAUTION
Do not allow the HV battery to discharge completely. There is a possibility that the HV battery will no longer charge if left discharged for long periods of time.
NOTE
Charge the HV battery at regular intervals.

# Maintenance


## General Information

Vehicle Care Overview
To ensure a trouble-free experience with the vehicle, regular maintenance should be carried out as stipulated in the Owner’s Manual. If any abnormal sounds or vibrations are observed, visit the nearest VinFast Service ﻿Centre to have the vehicle inspected. Regular maintenance and servicing are recommended to prevent operational problems with the vehicle.
CAUTION
All service procedures must be carried out by an authorised VinFast technician.

## Fluids, Lubricants and Parts

Cabin Air Filter
The air conditioner cabin filter prevents dust, pollen, and other pollutants from entering the vehicle. ﻿To achieve the best filtering effects, replace the cabin filter within the specified maintenance interval specified by VinFast.
The cabin air filter should be replaced according to the Maintenance Schedule. If the vehicle is operated in severely air polluted or dusty conditions, inspect, and replace the cabin air filter more frequently.
NOTE
Filter life depends on atmospheric conditions.
It is recommended that service procedure must be carried out by an ﻿authorised VinFast service technician.
Filter Replacement
To remove the Cabin Air filter:
The installation position of the air filter is located under the glove box.
Pinch the outer buckle of the air filter fixing cover plate   and remove the air filter fixing cover plate.
Extract air filter  .
To install the Cabin Air filter:
To install a new air filter, reassemble in the reverse order of removal process.
Washer Fluid
Washing solution is used to clean the windshield by operating the windshield wipers. The washer fluid reservoir is located on the inside of the right front fender of the vehicle.
To Top-up the Washer Fluid﻿:
Pull the cap to open the washer fluid reservoir.
Add washer fluid to reservoir until the reservoir is full.
Refit the cap to close the washer fluid reservoir, ensuring it is fitted tightly.
WARNING
Washer fluid can irritate eyes and skin. Read and follow the instructions provided by the washer fluid manufacturer.
In cold climates where water can freeze, use a washer fluid with anti-freeze agent. In colder regions, using a washer fluid without an anti-freeze agent can impair visibility through the windshield.
Washer fluid is toxic and can be harmful if swallowed. Keep washer fluid bottles sealed and out of reach of children. If a child has accidentally ingested the washer fluid, seek immediate medical attention.
Keep washer fluid away from children and animals.
CAUTION
Make sure to use a windshield washer fluid that is meant for automotive vehicles. The use of other substances, such as untreated water, can lead to bacterial growth within the climate control system, resulting in odours or potential damage to the vehicle.
Add washer fluid carefully, do not let it splash on to the exterior surface of the vehicle.
Do not turn the wiper ON without using water or washer fluid as it may scratch or damage the windshield when dry.
The concentration of anti-freeze agent in the washer fluid must be adjusted to the vehicle operating conditions and the climate. A high concentration may lead to vehicle damage.
Do not mix water with ready-to-use washer fluid. Water can cause the solution to freeze and damage the washer fluid tank and other parts of the washer system.
Fill the washer fluid reservoir only three-quarters full when it is very cold. This allows for fluid expansion if freezing occurs, which could damage the reservoir if it is completely full.
NOTE
When using concentrated washer fluid, follow the manufacturer instructions for adding water.
Wiper Blades
Windshield Wiper Blades should be regularly inspected for wear or cracking. Contamination of either the windshield or the wiper blades with foreign matter can reduce the effectiveness of the windshield wipers.
Common sources of contamination are:
Insects
Tree sap
Hot wax treatments used by some commercial car washes
If the wiper blades are not wiping/cleaning the windshield properly, clean both the windshield and the wiper blades with a mild detergent, and rinse thoroughly with clean water.
Wiper blades will degrade over time and eventually require replacement. If water is not sufficiently cleared from the windshield and blades squeak when in operation, wiper blade replacement may be required.
Wiper Blade Replacement
To remove the wiper blades:
The vehicle needs to be in ACC power mode.
Wipers need to be in home position, wiper stalk in OFF position and Wash Mode should be deactivated.
Set Wiper Service Mode to ON, see > Settings >   Vehicle and Drive Settings  .
Lift the wiper arm away from the windshield.
Press the clip   at the connection between the wiper blade and the wiper arm, and simultaneously pull the wiper blade   downwards.
Slide the new wiper blade onto the wiper arm in the opposite direction of disassembly until it clicks into place on the wiper arm.
Place the wiper assembly back on the windshield and check that the wiper blade is properly attached to the wiper arm.
Turn Wiper Service mode OFF from the Infotainment screen to return the Wiper back to the home position.
CAUTION
Wiper blades cannot be locked into a lifted position. Do not lift a wiper arm beyond its intended position as it can cause damage to wiper arm.
Do not use or allow wiper arms to touch the windshield without installing wiper blades. This can damage the windshield. Such damage would not be covered by the vehicle warranty.
NOTE
Do not use non genuine products. Using non genuine wiper blades may damage the wiper system and windshield.
Wiper blade replacement should be done by a VinFast ﻿Authorised Technician.
Brake Pads & Fluids
Brake pads & brake fluid are important components of the vehicle’s braking system. To ensure effective braking performance it is important to regularly inspect the brake pads for excessive wear and check the brake fluid level.
Brake Pads
Brake pad wear is affected by various vehicle operating conditions and increased pad wear may occur if the vehicle is driven in an aggressive manner with frequent and heavy braking.
The vehicle is equipped with brake pad wear indicators. The wear indicator is a thin metal strip attached to the brake pad that produces a squealing sound when it makes contact with the brake rotor, indicating that the brake pad material has reached the end of its effective service life.
Please contact your nearest VinFast Service ﻿Centre to have the vehicle’s braking system inspected if you are facing difficulties with stopping the vehicle effectively.
WARNING
Do not neglect to service the vehicle braking system as it may result in reduced brake system performance, increasing the stopping distance which may lead to an accident.
Do not drive with worn-out brake pads. Damage to the braking system can result in a braking hazard.
The braking effect may get reduced if the brake pads become wet after heavy rainfall or immediately after washing the vehicle. This might require pressing the brake pedal with more force to compensate.
A salt layer on the brake pads may affect the braking performance of the vehicle.
Overheated brakes reduce the braking effect and considerably increase the braking distance.
NOTE
Always replace brake pads as a set, either both front or both rear sets.
To avoid costly brake repairs, do not continue to drive with worn-out brake pads.
Brake Fluid
Brake fluid is a type of hydraulic fluid used in hydraulic brake systems to transfer force into pressure.
The brake fluid level in the reservoir should be checked regularly. Brake fluid may absorb some amount of moisture from the atmosphere over time. The hydraulic braking system may get damaged if there is too much moisture in the braking fluid.
To Check the Brake Fluid:
Ensure the vehicle is parked on a flat surface.
Let the braking system cool down.
Brake fluid reservoir is located under the front hood, you need to remove the front hood to see it, see > Front and Rear Compartments >   Front Hood  .
The fluid level should be between the  MIN  and  MAX  indicator marks as shown on the side of the reservoir.
There are two reasons why the brake fluid level in the reservoir may go down:
Brake pads normal wear. When new pads are installed, the fluid level goes back up.
Fluid leak in the hydraulic brake system. Have the hydraulic brake system fixed. With a leak, the brakes will not work well.
Always clean the brake fluid reservoir cap and the area around the cap before removing and installing the cap.
Do not top off the brake fluid.
If fluid is added due to worn pads, when new brake pads are installed there will be too much fluid. Add or remove fluid, as necessary, only when work is performed on hydraulic brake system.
CAUTION
Do not mix other types of brake fluid, otherwise it will cause damage to the braking system and components.
NOTE
The brake fluid used in this vehicle is DOT 4.
The red brake indicator   inline Rectangle on the information entertainment screen will illuminate if the brake fluid in the reservoir drops below the recommended level. Please contact your nearest VinFast Service ﻿Centre immediately to have the vehicle’s braking system inspected.
WARNING
The brake fluid level must be between MIN and MAX level. Brake fluid may leak out over the edge of the reservoir if the brake fluid level is above the MAX indicator and may result in damage to the vehicle.
If the brake light illuminates while driving, stop as soon as safely possible and check the brake fluid level. If left unchecked, this may prevent effective braking and cause increased movement in the brake pedal and/or complete brake failure.
Brake fluid is highly toxic. Keep brake fluid container sealed and out of reach of children. Seek immediate medical attention if accidentally exposed to any brake fluid.
Prevent brake fluid from making contact with skin and eyes. If contact is made, rinse immediately with water. If redness, pain, or discomfort persists, seek immediate medical attention.
Do not touch any of the High Voltage components in the brake fluid reservoir area.
Do not use ﻿unauthorised products. Usage of incorrect or contaminated brake fluid could result in damaging the braking system. This could result in the loss of braking, leading to an accident.
CAUTION
Use brake fluid only from a sealed airtight container. Do not use previously used fluid or fluid from an opened container, as brake fluid has a tendency to absorb moisture which decreases braking performance.
Do not allow any brake fluid to come into contact with the vehicle paint to avoid corrosion.
Contact VinFast Service Centre﻿ immediately if any increased movement of the brake pedal or a significant loss of brake fluid is observed. Driving under these conditions can result in extended stopping distances or complete brake failure.
NOTE
The brake fluid level drops slightly during vehicle operation and as the brake pads wear.
Air Conditioner
To ensure continuous and efficient operation of the air conditioning system, a few minutes of cooling must be regularly performed once a month, regardless of the weather conditions and time of the year.
The air conditioning system in the vehicle is filled with R134a﻿ refrigerant. The technical details of the air conditioning refrigerant can be found on the label inside the hood of the vehicle.﻿ See > Technical specification >   Fluids, Lubricants and Parts Overview  .
WARNING
Air conditioning systems contain high-pressured refrigerants. Do not open the air conditioner refrigerant system as it may result in serious injuries.
Air conditioning refrigerant systems should only be serviced by an authorised service technician.
NOTE
Always use manufacturer ﻿authorised refrigerant and air-conditioning compressor oil.
In humid climates, the air conditioning may create water droplets inside the vehicle. It is recommended to use the air conditioner with the windows closed.
Electric vehicles run much quieter than gasoline-powered vehicles, therefore the A/C compressor operation sound may be more audible.

## Electrical System

Fuses and Circuit Breakers
The vehicle is equipped with fuses and circuit breakers to prevent electrical system overload. The fuse box in the vehicle is located under the right front engine hood, at the top of the 12 volt battery, and behind the driver’s side dashboard. If the fuse/relay blows, it is strongly recommended that only VinFast technicians replace or inspect the electrical fuse.
When a fuse blows, the element inside the fuse is melted or broken. Always replace a fuse with fuse of identical size and rating. If the replaced fuse blows immediately after replacing, contact the local VinFast Service ﻿Centre for maintenance as soon as possible.
WARNING
Fuses and circuit breakers are marked with their ampere rating. Do not exceed the specified rating when replacing fuses and circuit breakers. The use of an oversized fuse or circuit breaker can result in a vehicle fire causing serious injury or death.
Installing fuses that do not meet VinFast’s original fuse specifications is dangerous. The fuses could fail, resulting in a fire causing vehicle damage and/or death.
Spilling liquid on any electrical component in the vehicle may damage it. Always be very careful when working around electrical components.
CAUTION
A fuse must not be replaced with anything but another fuse of same size and rating.
Never try to repair a blown fuse.
Do not use copper wire or aluminum foil as a temporary substitute for a proper fuse. Such substitutes can cause extensive wiring damage, possibly resulting in a fire.
Avoid using a screwdriver or any other metal objects to remove fuses, as they may cause short circuits.
Instrument Panel Fusebox
Instrument Panel fuse box is located in the lower left-hand side of the dashboard.
To access Front IP fusebox:
Turn the vehicle OFF.
Make sure all switches are in the OFF position.
Remove the left lower guard board of the dashboard.
Refer to the instructions provided inside the left lower guard of the dashboard and replace the required fuse.
Remove the blown fuse out by using the removal tool which is provided in the front compartment fuse box.
Check and replace the blown fuse.
Make sure the replaced fuse has the same rating and it fits tightly in its place. If in doubt, please contact a VinFast service technician.
Fuse Details:
IP FUSE & RELAY DETAILS
Fuse Name
Fuse Identification
Type
Rating
ACC relay
IF04
FUSE
25A
Window_L
IF05
FUSE
20A
Window_R
IF06
FUSE
20A
Gateway/Radar
IF09
FUSE
5A
ACU
IF11
FUSE
5A
CCH
IF12
FUSE
5A
Centrol control switch
IF13
FUSE
5A
PDU
IF14
FUSE
5A
EDS
IF15
FUSE
5A
BMS
IF16
FUSE
5A
VCU
IF17
FUSE
5A
ABS
IF18
FUSE
5A
EPS
IF19
FUSE
5A
MHU
IF21
FUSE
5A
XGW
IF22
FUSE
5A
Stalk switches
IF23
FUSE
5A
IG relay
IF24
FUSE
20A
CDL door
IF26
FUSE
20A
Reading lamps
IF27
FUSE
5A
Turn lights
IF28
FUSE
10A
Beam lamp
IF29
FUSE
15A
Stop lamp
IF31
FUSE
10A
OBD
IF32
FUSE
10A
Gateway
IF33
FUSE
5A
FR wiper
IF34
FUSE
20A
MHU
IF35
FUSE
25A
ACC
IR01
RELAY
40A
IG
IR02
RELAY
30A
Front Compartment Fuse Box
To access Front Compartment fuses:
Turn the vehicle OFF.
Make sure all switches are in the OFF position.
Remove the front hood to see it, see > Front and Rear Compartments >   Front Hood  .
Press the tab and pull upwards to remove the fuse panel cover.
Refer to the description provided inside the fuse panel cover to replace the required fuse.
Remove the blown fuse out by using the removal tool which is provided in the front compartment fuse box.
Check and replace the blown fuse.
Make sure the replaced fuse has the same rating and it fits tightly in its place. If in doubt, please contact a VinFast service technician.
NOTE
Remember to securely install the fuse panel cover back, if not securely attached water may enter and cause electrical damage.
Front Compartment Fuse Label:
Front Compartment Fusebox details
Fuse Name
Fuse Identification
Type
Rating
ABS_1
EF01
FUSE
20A
ABS_2
EF02
FUSE
30A
Blower
EF03
FUSE
25A
High speed fan
EF04
FUSE
25A
Vacumn_Pump
EF05
FUSE
20A
EDS
EF06
FUSE
15A
BMS
EF07
FUSE
10A
VCU
EF08
FUSE
5A
Main_RLY
EF09
FUSE
20A
Brake Pedal_2
EF13
FUSE
5A
EAC
EF14
FUSE
5A
Brake Pedal_1
EF15
FUSE
5A
Horn
EF16
FUSE
15A
PDU
EF19
FUSE
10A
Main
ER09
RELAY
30A
Low speed fan
ER11
RELAY
30A
Vacuum Pump
ER14
RELAY
40A
Horn
ER15
RELAY
30A
High speed fan
ER16
RELAY
40A
Reserve
EF33
FUSE
5A
Reserve
EF34
FUSE
10A
Reserve
EF35
FUSE
15A
Reserve
EF36
FUSE
25A
12V Auxiliary Battery Fuse Box:
Turn the vehicle OFF.
Make sure all switches are in the OFF position.
Remove the front hood to see it, see > Front and Rear Compartments >   Front Hood  .
Remove the fuse panel cover.
Refer to the description provided inside the fuse panel cover to replace the required fuse.
Remove the blown fuse out by using the removal tool.
Check and replace the blown fuse.
Make sure the replaced fuse has the same rating and it fits tightly in its place. If in doubt, please contact a VinFast service technician.
Fuse Label:
Front Compartment Fusebox details
No.
Fuse Name
Type
Rating
1
Cabin Fuse Box
Slow Blow Fuse
125A
2
IP Fuse Box
Slow Blow Fuse
125A
3
EPS
Slow Blow Fuse
30A
4
DC-DC
Slow Blow Fuse
125A
Lights Bulbs
All interior and exterior lights of the vehicle are equipped with halogen bulbs. If you need to replace the bulb or lamp assembly, please contact the VinFast service center. The type and size of the replacement light bulb must be the same as the original light.
Exterior Lights
Front Light:
Position light
Turn signal
High and Low beams
Rear Lights:
Turn signal
Reverse lights
Projection region
Stop/Brake Lights/Position light
License plate lamp
CAUTION
If the indicator light becomes dim, cracked, or damaged, please replace the bulb immediately. Handle replacement light bulbs carefully according to repair instruction.
WARNING
If replacement is required, please contact the VinFast service center to ensure replacement according to VinFast repair instruction.
Replacing the bulb not according to VinFast repair instruction can lead to electrical system damage, vehicle fire causing serious injury or death.
Interior Lights
Indoor reading lights equipped with halogen bulbs. If replacement is required, please contact the VinFast service center.
Battery (12V)
The vehicle is equipped with a 12V battery that is used to power some of the vehicle’s electrical components.
Even when the electrical equipment is switched off, the battery can still drain if it is not driven for long periods of time. Contact an authorized VinFast dealer or authorized VinFast service facility for more information.
WARNING
Wear correct PPE to avoid injury from acid splashes from the battery.
Keep batteries out of reach from children.
Batteries contain sulfuric acid, avoid contact with skin and eyes or clothes. Wash immediately with water if contact is made. Seek medical attention if you feel pain or burning sensations.
Never touch any of the electrical system components when vehicle is starting or when ignition is On.
The Battery has no parts that the owner or a non-VinFast authorized service technician can service. Under no circumstances should you open or tamper with the Battery. Contact authorized VinFast service center to arrange for Battery servicing.
CAUTION
Battery 12V can encounter problems if used incorrectly, as following specific examples:
- Frequent short trips (a few hundred meters or a few kilometers) with frequent starting and stopping.
- Leaving the vehicle unused for extended periods without disconnecting the battery’s negative terminal. Many people leave their vehicles parked for several weeks or months without use, causing the battery to drain.
- Using electrical devices that draw power from the battery when the vehicle is not started.
- Installing non-genuine electrical accessories that drain the battery.
- Frequently draining the battery through improper use, such as leaving the turn signals, parking lights, or hazard lights on for extended periods.
NOTE
If the vehicle becomes unresponsive and does not unlock, open, or charge, the low voltage battery may be discharged. Contact a VinFast Service ﻿Centre.
When the vehicle is parked for a long time (more than 1 month), it is recommended to disconnect the negative terminal of the battery.
In extreme cold weather conditions, have the battery checked at an authorized Vinfast service center before driving.
Battery Maintenance
To ensure optimum working of electrical components of the vehicle, check the health of the 12V battery regularly.
Ensure the battery is securely mounted.
Ensure the battery is clean and dry, with no visible liquid leaks.
Ensure the battery terminals and connections are always clean and secure.
Battery Replacement
Only use parts ﻿authorised by VinFast. It is recommended to replace the original battery with a battery of the same specification. Please contact a VinFast Service ﻿Centre for more details.
The following functions may need to be reset after the battery has been disconnected:
Climate control settings
Clock and Phone settings
Infotainment system

## Wheels and Tires

Tires
Tires have a significant impact on the driving characteristics of vehicles, and tire type, size, tire pressure, rated speed, and appropriate tire maintenance are all important factors that determine vehicle performance.
The vehicle is equipped with 175/75 R16 tires.
Depending on the climate and where the vehicle will be driven, alternative ﻿tires may be needed. These are classified as Summer, Winter, or All-Season ﻿tires. For more information, please visit the nearest VinFast Service ﻿Centre.
Tire Care
To ensure the safety of all the passengers and maximize the efficiency and range of the vehicle, it is recommended to maintain proper ﻿tire pressure and stay within the specified load limits of the vehicle.
Any ﻿tire that show uneven wear or are damaged must be replaced or repaired as soon as possible. Worn ﻿tires can cause loss of traction, braking effectiveness and can affect steering control.
Please check the tire pressure regularly, especially before starting long-distance driving. When inflating a tire, be sure to reach the pressure specified on the tire information label, see > Wheels and Tires >   Tire pressure  .
Tire Inspection
Correct inflation pressure and good driving habits will prolong the service life of tires.
Please regularly check tire pressure.
Please regularly check the tires for damage (cuts or cracks, etc.) and periodically check for any abnormal wear.
NOTE
Always replace ﻿tire with the same size, type, and tread pattern as originally supplied by the vehicle manufacturer.
Please check and make necessary changes to ﻿tires that are damaged, excessively worn, or incorrectly inflated before driving.
Tire Pressure
To ensure maximum tire life and safe vehicle performance it is important to regularly check tire pressures and ensure tires are inflated to the recommend pressures.
All tire pressures should be checked when the tires are cold.
The Tire and Loading Information label indicates the original equipment tire fitted to the vehicle and provides the recommended cold tire inflation pressure.
Tire Pressure Placard
The recommended tire pressure is listed on the label attached to the driver’s side center pillar:
Tire Dimension
175/75 R16
Cold Tire Pressure
Normal Load: 240kPa/34psi/2.4bar
Maximum Load: 240kPa/34psi/2.4bar
Wheel rim size
16×5.5J
Wheel rim type
Steel - central hub cover
Under inflated tires will produce excessive wear on the inner and outer edges of the tire and may cause the vehicle to display poor handling quality due to excessive tire flexibility.
Over inflated tires will produce a reduced contact area with the road surface and may lead to reduced traction.
Tires over inflated will also exhibit increased wear to the center of the tire resulting in overall increased tire wear.
Tire Pressure Check:
It is recommended to check tire pressures, every 14 days or before undertaking long distance journeys.
Remove the valve cap from the ﻿tire valve stem.
Press the tire pressure gauge firmly onto the valve to get a pressure measurement. If the cold tire inflation pressure matches the recommended pressure on the  Tire Placard  no further adjustment is necessary.﻿
If the tire is under inflated, add air until the recommended pressure is reached﻿.
If the tire is over inflated, release air by pushing on the metal stem in the center of the tire valve. Recheck the tire pressure with a pressure gauge.
Put the valve caps back on the valve stems. Without the valve cap, dirt or moisture could get into the valve and cause air leakage. If a valve cap is missing, install a new one as soon as possible.
If a tire is not maintaining pressure, please have the tire inspected at a VinFast Service ﻿Centre.
WARNING
Driving with an incorrectly inflated tire can affect the vehicle handling, steering, and braking. This can lead to an accident, causing serious injury or death.
Under-inflated tires are the most common cause of tire failures and can cause severe tire cracking, tread separation, or blowout, resulting in sudden loss of vehicle control and accidents.
Insufficient tire pressure leads to tire sidewall flexing and an increase of rolling resistance, which results in heat buildup and internal damage. Additionally, it can contribute to tire damage, irregular tire wear and loss of vehicle control. It is possible for a tire to lose up to half of its air pressure and not appear flat.
NOTE
Incorrectly inflated tires may wear faster and create more road noise.
Tire Wear & Tread Depth
The ﻿tire is designed with a tread pattern wear indicator line. If a ﻿tire tread is worn down to 1.6 mm of 2 mm, it must be replaced so that the vehicle does not skid or hydroplane. Built-in tread wear indicators, or wear bars, which appear as thin, smooth rubber strips across the tread, will appear once the tread wears. If necessary, a tread depth gauge can be used to measure.
The wear should be even across the ﻿tire. The left and right ﻿tires should have the same amount of tread depth, to prevent the vehicle from losing control while driving.
Tire wear
The following situations can increase ﻿tire wear:
Inflation pressure that is too low or high can significantly increase ﻿tire wear.
Driving on curved roads at high speeds, rapid acceleration, and heavy braking increases the ﻿tire’s wear﻿.
WARNING
Replace the worn or damaged ﻿tire immediately. Worn or damaged ﻿tires can cause loss of braking, steering control, and traction.
It is recommended to replace the ﻿tires in sets i.e., replace either both front two or rear two ﻿tires.
Always replace ﻿tires with the same size that was originally supplied.
Driving in hot weather or an overloaded vehicle can cause the ﻿tires to wear out faster. Inspect the ﻿tires regularly.
The grip of damaged ﻿tires is very low, especially on wet roads, which can cause the vehicle to float on the road surface (hydroplaning).
CAUTION
When the vehicle is in high speed and/or in wet conditions, steering and braking will not perform optimally.
Tire Rotation
In order to make the wear of each tire uniform and extend its life, it is recommended that the tires be rotated every 12,000km. Please refer to the diagram below when changing the tire positions.
Use below rotation pattern when changing the ﻿tire positions:
Every time the tire is rotated, the wear should be checked. Check whether the tread pattern or the side of the tire is damaged or bulging. If tire is damaged or bulging, replace the tire immediately.
When rotating the tires, check the wear and condition of the brake disc and brake pads.
After the tires are rotated, ensure that the front and rear tire pressures and tightening force of the wheel nuts meet the specified values.
The wear should be even across the ﻿tire. The left and right ﻿tires should have the same amount of tread depth, to prevent the vehicle from losing control while driving.
Check whether the tread pattern or the ﻿tire sidewall is damaged. Replace the ﻿tire if:
The ﻿tire tread wear indicators at three or more places around the ﻿tire can be seen.
There is cord or fabric showing through the ﻿tires rubber.
The tread or sidewall is cracked, cut, or snagged deep enough to show cord or fabric.
The ﻿tire has a bump, bulge, or split.
The ﻿tire has a puncture, cut, or other damage that cannot be repaired well because of the size or location of the damage.
WARNING
Do not mix bias ply and radial ply tires under any condition. This can lead to abnormal handling that can cause the wheels to loosen over time. The wheel may fall off and cause an accident.
Rust or dirt on a wheel, or on the parts to where it is fastened, can cause wheel nuts to become loose over time. The wheel may become detached and cause an accident.
Do not apply grease to the wheel mounting surface, wheel conical seats, or wheel nuts or bolts. Grease applied to these parts can cause a wheel to become loose or come off, resulting in an accident.
CAUTION
When rotating tires with asymmetrical tread pattern, always make sure that the tire “OUTSIDE” marking on the sidewall should face outward.
Please visit a VinFast Service Centre to rotate the tires diagonally if needed.
NOTE
After the tires are rotated, inflate the front and rear tires to the recommended tire inflation pressure. Check that all the wheel mounting nuts are properly tightened to the specified torque.
Wheel Alignment and Balance
The wheels and tires on the vehicle are aligned and balanced to give the maximum ﻿tire life and optimum performance. In most cases, the wheels and ﻿tires do not need alignment and balancing regularly. However, if any abnormal ﻿tire wear is observed or the vehicle starts pulling one way or towards one side, then alignment may be needed.
The vehicle is vibrating when driving on a smooth road, the ﻿tires and wheels may need to be rebalanced.
Wheels may need to be aligned in following scenarios:
After replacing or repairing the ﻿tire in a collision accident.
Observed one-sided wear of front and rear tires.
After disassembling and repairing the tire, reassemble the tire on the rim.
If the wheels are shaking or the steering wheel is vibrating while driving at a high speeds.
When the vehicle pulls to the left or right, rather than going straight.
CAUTION
Incorrect wheel alignment causes excessive ﻿tire wear and may impact vehicle safety.
NOTE
Wheels and ﻿tires should be aligned by an approved VinFast Service ﻿Centre.
WARNING
Do not continue driving and promptly contact to the VinFast service center for assistance if there is a shock at the front wheel causing damage to the suspension system.

## Vehicle Cleaning

Exterior Care
The exterior of the vehicle should be regularly cleaned to maintain the vehicle’s appearance and condition. Frequent cleaning is recommended for vehicles driven in coastal areas and on roads that have salt or antifreeze applied due to an increased risk of metal corrosion due to environmental conditions.
Glass surfaces like windshields, windows and mirrors should be cleaned regularly to ensure good visibility. Ensure that all exterior lights are clean and provide good forward visibility during low ambient driving conditions, and clear view of brake lights and directional indicator lights.
Cleaning Body Panels
Ensure that all the doors and windows are closed properly before washing. Remove any heavy deposits of mud and dirt with a nominal pressurized water spray from a distance of more than 30 cm﻿. In case of hand washing, use approved diluted soap or shampoo in lukewarm water and wipe with a soft microfiber cloth.
Wash the vehicle with soapy water or non-corrosive mild gel detergents. Rinse with clean water and dry thoroughly using a chamois cloth or a soft microfiber cloth.
Inspect the vehicle for minor paintwork damage such as stone chips, etc. and where necessary have it rectified immediately to prevent corrosion.
Cleaning Glass Surfaces
Clean windows and mirrors using an approved automotive glass cleaner. Do not use any abrasive cleaning fluid on any surface.
WARNING
Incorrect care and cleaning of vehicle parts can impair the safety features of the vehicle and cause serious injury. Vehicle parts must be cleaned according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Always use approved or recommended cleaning products.
Vehicle maintenance products may be toxic and hazardous in nature. Improper use or incorrect application of maintenance products may cause burns, accidents leading to severe injuries or poisoning.
Do not use turpentine, nail varnish remover or other volatile fluids for vehicle cleaning. These substances are highly toxic and flammable.
Keep children away from all cleaning agents and products.
Use cleaning products in well-ventilated rooms or in open area to avoid inhaling any toxic vapors.
Always use cleaning products that are approved or recommended by the manufacturer.
Brake performance may get reduced after washing the vehicle. To check if they have been affected by water, test the brakes while driving slowly. If performance is impaired, dry the brakes by engaging them lightly while maintaining a slow speed.
CAUTION
Do not use any petroleum based/abrasive cleaning agents or hard/abrasive cleaning tools as they may damage the vehicle’s paint.
Improper vehicle cleaning can cause severe damage to the vehicle. Have stubborn stains removed by a qualified workshop.
Do not wash the vehicle under direct sunlight.
Hold the nozzle at a distance of more than 30 cm (12 in) away from the surface of the vehicle when using high pressure washer.
Do not aim the high-pressure washer directly at the charging port door, parking sensors, body seals, cables, electronic modules, doors, or liftgates, as these components may be damaged or frozen in cold weather conditions.
Do not use excessively hot water to clean the vehicle as it may severely damage the painted surfaces.
Prior to washing the vehicle, ensure the charging port door is closed. Do not spray high pressure water on the charge port as it may result in damage to the charge port door or related charging equipment.
Do not place any stickers or magnetic signs on vehicle components. The paint could get damaged when the stickers or magnets are removed.
Cleaning the Wheels
The wheels should be cleaned with the same solution as other parts of the vehicle. Rinse thoroughly with water after cleaning.
The wheels have a transparent protective layer (paint) to protect the wheel from corrosion and rust. Use of non-suitable cleaners (including some marketed wheel cleaners) or hard brushes can damage the coating.﻿ Only use a neutral cleaner and a soft brush or sponge to clean the wheels.
CAUTION
Drive slowly on a rough road or in off road conditions so as not to damage the ﻿tires and wheels. Inspect the ﻿tires and wheels after driving.
Drive the vehicle slowly while passing over a pothole, speed bump, manhole, or curb stone so as not to damage the ﻿tire and wheels.
Cleaning Underbody
Regularly check the underbody for buildup of dirt, grime and debris that may be lodged in unsuspecting areas.
Thoroughly flush the vehicle under body and wheel openings with lukewarm or cold water keeping a safe distance. Not use high pressure water/steam-beam jet when cleaning the underbody where EDS is located.
If damage or corrosion is detected, have the vehicle inspected by a VinFast Service ﻿Centre.
Keep the drain holes at the lower edges of the doors, rocker panels and frame members free from clogging with debris. Any trapped water inside these areas can cause corrosion.
Wash the underside of the vehicle once road salts are stopped being used in the winter season.
WARNING
When attempting to clean the underbody of the vehicle, the vehicle must be parked on a flat surface in Park (P) gear with parking brake engaged and underbody surface must be cold.
Do not touch any orange ﻿colour high voltage cable when cleaning underbody of the vehicle.
Always wear protective clothing when cleaning near sharp metal components, for example vehicle underbody.
To ensure your safety and maintain the lifespan of high-pressure components, do not use a high-pressure water gun or steam jet to clean the chassis.
Automatic Car Wash
It is safe to wash electric vehicles in automatic car wash. The equipment will not damage the electric motor or battery as they are sealed to prevent water intrusion.
It is recommended to use touch-less automatic car washes as no contact is made to the exterior of the vehicle with rotating brushes that have the potential to damage the paintwork.
Please operate the vehicle according to the instructions on the automatic car wash equipment.
CAUTION
In automatic car washes, fold the exterior mirrors so that they do not get damaged.
Check and compare height and width of the car wash with the vehicle so that the vehicle does not get damaged.
Due to the insufficient hardening of the paint in the first month, please do not clean your vehicle in the automatic car wash equipment during this period.
NOTE
Do not drive the vehicle through an automatic car wash that uses silicon carbide ﻿tire wheel cleaning brushes. It may damage the vehicle and the repairs would not be covered by the vehicle warranty.
Sensors and Camera Care
In order for the parking assist system to function properly, the sensors and camera (if equipped) must be free of dirt, soil, ice, snow, etc., and should be regularly cleaned with water and car wash solution.
Obstacles near the sensors may cause system functionality to be disabled or restricted, and in some cases may display error warnings.
NOTE
If the sensors and/or camera is obstructed, a parking assist malfunction warning message may be displayed on the infotainment screen.
Sensor location
Camera (if equipped)
Sensors
Cleaning
Clear any dirt or grime build-up by wiping the components with a soft cloth and lukewarm water or by spraying water.
After cleaning, the parking assist system will function normally. If the warning message still exists after cleaning the sensors and camera, there may be a system malfunction. Visit the nearest VinFast service center to check the system.
WARNING
Dirty or damaged sensors and camera may affect the performance of the parking assist system.
CAUTION
Do not use abrasives or cleaning agents to clean the sensor and camera, as it may damage the surface and cause a decrease in functionality.
When cleaning the vehicle, avoid aligning the high-pressure washer directly to the sensor and camera.
Do not install or use objects such as bumper stickers, films, or bumper protective covers on or near the sensor.
Interior Care
Regularly clean the vehicle’s interior to prevent a build-up of dirt and dust that could cause premature degradation of the surfaces.
Wipe all surfaces down with a slightly damped microfiber cloth with approved interior cleaning products. Drying immediately will prevent streaks from remaining on the surface.
CAUTION
Do not spray liquid or cleaner directly onto the surface of switches and controls. It can leak into the gaps around switches and controls which can damage the electronics of the vehicle.
To prevent damage to interior surfaces, do not clean them with chemical solvents or strong detergents.
Do not apply excessive pressure while cleaning the vehicle.
NOTE
Ensure that water or other liquid does not come in contact with electrical or any electronic components inside the vehicle as this may damage them.
Apply all the cleaning agents directly to the cleaning cloth. It is advisable to use use neutral detergents or low alcohol content solutions.
Cleaning Seats and Seat belts:
Regularly clean the seat upholstery, to prevent dirt getting ingrained and staining. Clean the seat surfaces using a clean, damp, non-﻿coloured cloth or vacuum with a soft brush attachment. Do not leave excessive water on the surface.
Fully extend the seat belts and clean them with a mild, non-abrasive soap and lukewarm water. After washing thoroughly, sponge the solution out of the belts. Do not allow the belts to retract until they are fully dry﻿.
Regularly inspect the seatbelt webbing for contamination, damage, or fraying.
WARNING
Any damage identified on a seatbelt should be fixed immediately at the nearest VinFast Service ﻿Centre. Do not use a damaged seatbelt.
Do not allow passengers to ride in any area of the vehicle that is not equipped with seats and seat belts.
Do not allow any water, cleaning products or loose fabric from a cloth to enter the seat belt mechanism. Any foreign object may affect the performance of the seat belt in an event of a collision. Damage to the seat belt can greatly reduce its effectiveness in reducing the risk of serious injury or death in the event of a collision.
Never remove seat belts to clean them.
CAUTION
Do not use bleach, strong detergents, or an abrasive brush or cloth to clean the seatbelt as it may damage and severely weaken the fabric.
Do not use steamers, brushes with hard bristles, hard sponges etc., to clean the seats as this may damage the seats.
Do not bleach or re-dye the webbing because this may weaken the seat belt.
Airbag Maintenance:
Foreign objects or substances should not enter the areas in the cabin where the airbag is located as it can impact proper operation of the airbag system. The area where the airbag is located is marked as AIRBAG (see >   Airbag  ). Gently clean the surface without applying too much pressure with a slightly damp cloth.
WARNING
Any liquid or substance that enters the airbag mechanism may prevent its proper deployment in an event of a collision. A compromised airbag system could result in serious injury or death in the event of an accident.
Cleaning Glass:
Clean the glass surfaces regularly using an approved glass cleaner to provide a clear and unobstructed view.
Follow the directions as specified by the glass cleaner manufacturer.
CAUTION
When cleaning glass, be sure to use manufacturer approved glass cleaning products and wipe it clean with a relatively dry soft towel to avoid leaving water stains that may affect visibility.
Cleaning Infotainment Screen:
Use high quality clean microfiber cloth to clean the Infotainment screen. Do not use any chemical, household cleaning agents or abrasive materials as the Infotainment screen surface may be affected. Turn OFF the vehicle to avoid accidental activation of any Infotainment features.
CAUTION
Avoid spilling or splashing liquids on to the Infotainment screen. It may cause it to malfunction.
Switch OFF the Infotainment screen and allow to cool down before cleaning.
When cleaning, make sure no liquids enter the space between the Infotainment screen and panels as this could cause damage.
Cleaning Carpet and Floor Mat:
Regularly clean the carpet and floor mats. Remove any unwanted substances and objects that could interfere with the operation of accelerator and brake pedals. Scrub with a weak solution of soap and warm water to remove unwanted ingrained dirt or stains. Replace the floor mats if they show signs of heavy wear.
WARNING
Unsecured or incorrectly positioned mats can interfere with the operation of the brake and accelerator pedal that could result in an accident leading to serious injury or death. After cleaning, correctly secure the mats before driving.
Do not place a floor mat on top of another on the driver’s side.
Do not overlay additional mats or liners over the floor mats. If using all weather mats, remove the carpeted floor mats before installing them. Only use floor mats designed to connect to the anchors.
Remove loose dirt particles with a vacuum cleaner on a regular basis so that the material is not permanently damaged by abrasion.

## Maintenance Schedule

Maintenance Schedule﻿ Overview
This section outlines the required maintenance for the vehicle.
To ensure economical and safe vehicle operation, it is of vital importance that all maintenance work is carried out at the prescribed intervals by trained service technicians. It is recommended that this vehicle is maintained and repaired by ﻿authorised VinFast Service ﻿Centres who will complete the scope of work as set out for the required tasks to sustain the road safety, road worthiness, operational reliability, and the New Vehicle Limited Warranty.
It is the responsibility of the owner to have the required maintenance performed and to retain records. Depending on market and region, the vehicle may be programmed to provide service reminders in car and on the VinFast App leading up to the schedule interval.
WARNING
All technical service required to be performed on the vehicle should only be performed by trained and ﻿authorised personnel who are certified to work on electric vehicles.
Do not attempt to modify, alter, or replace any high voltage components, cables, or connectors in the vehicle. High voltage cables are ﻿coloured orange for easy identification.
A poorly maintained vehicle increases the risk to drivers, passengers, and others on the road. If not maintained correctly, there is a danger of subsequent component damage or injury to individuals.
NOTE
The vehicle should not be modified in any way that could adversely affect its performance, safety, or durability as it may violate conditions of the warranties covering the vehicle. For details, read the separate Warranty Information handbook provided with the vehicle.
Maintenance Schedule
VF 3 Maintenance Schedule
o  Inspect and if necessary, adjust,
correct, clean or replace
•      R  eplace or service
Km **
15,000
30,000
45,000
60,000
75,000
90,000
105,000
120,000
135,000
150,000
Years **
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Cabin Air Filter
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Windscreen Wipers / Washer fluid
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Air conditioning System
o
o
o
o
•
Brake Fluid
Change every 2 years
General Service Inspection Items
Tire (Appearance, Pressure, Tread wear)
Wheel (Damage, Crack, Others)
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Wheel Rotation*
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Brake Pads and Rotors
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Brake lines, Hoses and Connections
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Electric Drive Unit
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Axle and Suspension Parts
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Drive Shaft and Boots
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Suspension Ball Joints
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Steering Gear Linkage and Ball Joints
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
High Voltage  Battery
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
High Voltage Cables and Wiring Harnesses
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Charging Port
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
12V Battery Condition
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Under body Corrosion Inspection
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
* It is recommended to inspect and rotate tires annually.
** Whichever comes first
Repeat Maintenance Schedule every 10 years, 150,000Km, whichever comes first.
Applicable from January 1, 2026
Service Reminder (if available)
The owner will be reminded when a service is due, via a message preceded by   that is displayed on the Infotainment screen.
The notification that a service is due is determined by time since the last service and vehicle mileage.
Service technicians will clear the service reminder when the service is complete.
Maintenance Schedule Notes
The electric drive unit is sealed for life. No maintenance is required.
Additional Maintenance and Care
The cabin air filter may need replacement more frequently if driving in areas with high traffic, poor air quality or high dust levels. The filter may also need to be replaced if there is reduced airflow, window fogging or bad odors. See > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts >   Cabin Air Filter  .
Regularly clean the interior and exterior of the vehicle to maintain the vehicle’s appearance and condition and to prevent premature degradation of the surfaces. For more information, see > Vehicle Cleaning >   Interior Care  .
Regularly check and maintain the recommended ﻿tire pressure to prevent premature wear. See > Wheels and Tires >   Tire Pressure  .
CAUTION
Do not allow the vehicle to sit idle for extended periods with a low charging state, otherwise it may not be possible to start or charge the vehicle and may also cause permanent damage to the battery.
Do not park or store the vehicle in areas which may flood, as flooding may damage the battery or other vehicle components.
Rodents can cause significant damage to your vehicle’s electrical wires, air lines and interior trim resulting in expensive repairs. Consequences of the damage may limit your vehicles functions such as, but not limited to, a no start condition or result in fluid leaks. Consider taking steps to discourage rodents such as repellent sprays. Any damage or related component failures caused by rodents are not covered under the New Vehicle Limited Warranty.
NOTE
The high voltage battery does not require owner maintenance. For any concerns, please contact a VinFast Service ﻿Centre.

## Parts and Accessories

Parts
VinFast parts are designed, tested, and manufactured according to VinFast’s uncompromising standards. Each part is made specifically to deliver optimum performance and maximize its lifespan. Similarly, VinFast Genuine Spare Parts are designed and manufactured to the same exact standards. To maintain and optimize the performance of your VinFast vehicle, always use VinFast Genuine Spare parts installed at a VinFast Service ﻿Centre by fully trained VinFast professionals.
WARNING
Installing non-genuine parts and accessories, or performing non-approved modifications, can affect the performance of the vehicle and the safety of its occupants.
Any damage caused by using or installing non-genuine parts, or by performing non-approved modifications, is not covered by the warranty.
VinFast does not accept liability for any ramifications that occur due to the use or installation of non-genuine parts and accessories.
Inflator Kit (if available)
The inflation kit allows car owners to inflate punctured tires. The tire inflation kit has a built-in pressure gauge for monitoring tire pressure. It needs to be powered by an independent power source.
Check the ﻿tire pressure placard on driver’s side B-Pillar before inflating ﻿tire. See > Wheels and Tires>   Tire Pressure  .
The inflator kit is stored in the rear cargo compartment under the floor cover.
Accessories
Genuine VinFast Accessories are specifically designed and tested for this vehicle. To buy genuine VinFast Accessories, visit the nearest VinFast Service ﻿Centre or alternatively visit the VinFast website.
VinFast does not endorse any ﻿unauthorised third-party products or accessories to be used on the vehicle. VinFast recommends only using genuine accessories.
WARNING
Any parts, accessories, or modifications not approved by VinFast might adversely affect the performance and safety of the vehicle.
Any damage to the vehicle caused by the installation or modification of non-genuine parts is not covered by the warranty.
VinFast takes no responsibility for deaths, personal injuries, or damage that may result from the use of non-genuine accessories or modifications.
NOTE
VinFast will not be responsible for performance, repair, replacement, damage, or any adverse effect on the vehicle caused by a third-party accessory.
VinFast will only service genuine accessories fitted to the vehicle.
Accessories may vary depending on market region, vehicle variant and availability of the product.
Roof rack (if equipped)
If the vehicle is equipped with Roof rail, you can choose to install a Roof rack for more convenient loading of goods.
WARNING
Make sure to comply with load limits, see >   Dimensions and Weights  .
Roof Rails (if equipped)
The roof can be equipped with roof rails. When traveling with load on the vehicle’s roof, make sure to travel with specialized accessories for carrying loads.
WARNING
Make sure to comply with load limits, see >   Dimensions and Weights  .
Floor Mats (if equipped)
Floor mats are provided for the front and rear foot well areas. The floor mats provide a protective layer to the vehicle’s carpet, and prevents it from getting dirty, wet or moist.
WARNING
Do not use additional mats, carpets or floor covers in driver’s foot well, as this can reduce the pedal movement or range and can impair pedal operation.
CAUTION
Floor mats are specifically designed to fit the foot well of the vehicle and are secured to the carpet. Using non-genuine floor mats can lead to problems such as hindering pedal movement.
Always make sure that the floor mats are securely anchored.
Sunglass Holder (if equipped)
The vehicle is equipped with a sunglasses holder, which can store sunglasses.
On-board tools (if equipped)
The vehicle is equipped with on-board tools, which can be used for vehicle towing and simple vehicle inspection and maintenance.
CAUTION
Although the vehicle is equipped with some in car tools, please contact the VinFast service center for usage restrictions before using these tools to avoid damaging the vehicle through self operation.
Car jack (if equipped)
The vehicle is equipped with a jack, which can be used to lift the vehicle.
The vehicle has four lifting points, see > Vehicle Recovery >   Vehicle Jack & Tire Repair  .
WARNING
Before using the jack, ensure that the ground is level and correctly lifted onto the vehicle lifting point.
Rear view camera (if equipped)
The rear view camera can assist the driver in better viewing the road conditions behind them when reversing.
WARNING
Even with the assistance of a rearview camera, it is important to promptly observe the rearview mirror and check the road conditions on both sides of the vehicle when reversing.
Seat cover (if equipped)
The seat cover can better protect the surface of the seat and is easy to clean.
Steering wheel cover(if equipped)
The steering wheel cover can better protect the surface of the steering wheel and is easy to clean.
Snowtires (if equipped)
Using snow tires in appropriate weather conditions can provide better grip for the wheels, thereby reducing the risk of accidents caused by slippery road surfaces.

# Technical Specifications


## Fluids, Lubricants and Parts

Fluids, Lubricants and Parts Overview
The fluids, lubricants, and parts in the vehicle have been specified to enable owners to enjoy optimum performance from their VinFast vehicle. In order to maintain that performance, it is recommended that only VinFast genuine fluids, lubricants and parts are used during servicing and maintenance of the vehicle.
The specification of fluids & lubricants used in the vehicle are as follows:
AC Refrigerant  - R134a﻿.
AC Compressor Oil  - POE68
Brake Fluid  - DOT 4
Transmission Fluid  - GL-5  75W/90
Low Voltage Battery  - 12V Lead Acid Battery
Climate Control Cabin Air Filter  - Common model
NOTE
For the recommended fluid, lubricant, part inspection and replacement frequency; refer to the Maintenance Schedule. See > Maintenance Schedule >   Maintenance Schedule Overview  .
WARNING
High voltage and HVAC component servicing must be done by ﻿authorised VinFast technicians.
It is recommended that the vehicle is serviced at a VinFast Service Centre using genuine VinFast spare parts.
Use VinFast-approved DOT 4 brake fluid from a sealed container. Do not use fluid from an open container that may be contaminated which may result in damage to components, or braking loss causing serious injury or death in the event of an accident.
DOT 4 brake fluid is toxic. Avoid direct contact with eyes and skin. Refer to safety instructions on the fluid container for safe handling and recommendations if contact is made.
Anti- freeze coolant is toxic and may be fatal if ingested. Avoid Anti- freeze coolant from making contact with skin and eyes. If contact occurs, rinse immediately with plenty of water and seek medical attention if required.
Washer fluid can cause irritation to the eyes and skin. If contact occurs rinse immediately with water.
CAUTION
Using incorrect fluids, lubricants, or parts may damage the vehicle.
Brake fluid can damage electrical components if it comes in/into contact with cables, wiring, headlights, plastic components, and painted surfaces. When changing brake fluid, use rags and suitable containers to prevent fluid from coming into contact with the vehicle. If brake fluid comes into contact with painted surfaces wash the area immediately with plenty of water.

## Vehicle Identification

Vehicle Identification Number
The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) is a legal identifier of a vehicle. It is the main identification number provided by VinFast, which is used to register the ownership of the vehicle.
The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) is located at the following locations:
VIN code   is included in the vehicle nameplate and can be viewed by opening the left door.
VIN code   is engraved under the passenger seat. Move the seat back and lift the VIN code cover to view it.
VIN number is displayed on the infotainment screen. See > Settings >   General  .
Compliance labels
The manufacturer’s certification label (Compliance Label)   inline Rectangle is located on the left central pillar (B-Pillar).
The following information is provided on the label:
Name of manufacture
Brand
Vehicle model
Vehicle identification number
Date of manufacture
WARNING
Do not overload the vehicle. Vehicle overloading can result in the driver losing control of the vehicle and increase the risk of an accident.
Overloading and high speeds can cause ﻿tire to overheat, resulting in a burst ﻿tire and loss of control, see > Vehicle Information >   Dimensions and Weights  .
Overloading can also impair stopping power, damage ﻿tire, and shorten the life of the vehicle.
Vehicle ﻿Licence Plate
The front and rear ﻿licence plates which are issued by the local authorities need to remain securely fixed to the vehicle, be clearly visible from a distance, and not blocked by any object at all times.
Under no circumstances should a ﻿licence plate frame be attached to the perimeter of the plate. Doing so may obstruct the, radar or parking sensors affecting their functionality.

## Vehicle Information

Dimensions and Weights
The following tables contain information related to vehicle Dimensions and Weights. All data is accurate at the time of publication. Any changes made post release of this version will be updated on the online version of the Owner’s Manual.
NOTE
Depending on the installation of the selected accessories, vehicle specific data may differ from these published figures.
Exterior Dimensions
Item
Description
Measurement (mm)
Vehicle Length
3190
Vehicle Height
1652
Vehicle Width with Mirrors
1748
Vehicle Width without Mirrors
1679
Wheelbase
2075
Track - Front
Track - Rear
1450
1435
Ground Clearance(No load)
175
Weights
Description
Weight (kg)
Curb Weight
857
Payload
300
Roof load
50
Calculating Load Limits:
Find the Maximum Gross Weight on the vehicle label, which we’ll call “XXX kg.”
Determine the total weight of the driver and passengers who will be in the vehicle.Subtract the total weight of the driver and passengers from XXX kg.
The result will be the remaining load capacity of the vehicle.Example: If “XXX” is 300 kg, and there are one driver and one passenger, each weighing 75 kg, the remaining load capacity will be 150 kg (300 - (75 × 2) = 150 kg), equivalent to two passengers.
Determine the total number of passengers that can be carried in the vehicle. This weight should not exceed the calculated load capacity in Step 3 and must not exceed 4 passengers.
Subsystems
Electric Motor
Description
Details
Type/Model
PMSM
Cooling
Air-cooled
Operating Voltage (DC)
280-450V
Max. Power
30kW
Battery - High Voltage
Description
Details
Type
Li-ion
Battery Capacity (Usable)
18.64kWh
Battery - 12V
Description
Details
Rating
32Ah
Voltage
12V
Brake System
Description
Details
General
Vacuum hydraulic assistance
Front Brake
Solid steel disc brake
Rear Brake
Drum brake
Parking Brake
EPB - Drum brake
Steering System
Description
Details
Type
Power Steering
Turning Angle (Inner)
40.04 DEG
Turning Angle (Outer)
34.08 DEG
Suspension System
Description
Details
Front Suspension system
MacPherson independent
Rear Suspension system
Rigid axle with Watt rods
Air Conditioning System
Description
Details
Refrigerant Type
R134a
Wheels and Tires
Wheel Specification (Factory Fitted)
Wheel Diameter
Location
Width
Offset
16”
Front/Rear
139.7mm
40±1mm
Tire Specification
Description
Details
Size
175/75 R16
Max Load
Front - 615 kg
Rear - 615 kg
Speed Level
210 km/h
Load Index
91
The recommended ﻿tire pressure is listed on the label attached to the driver’s door frame and is visible when the door is open. See > Wheels and Tire >   Tires Pressure  .
Tire Sidewall Labeling
Regulations stipulate that ﻿tire manufacturers are required to place standardized information on the sidewall of all ﻿tire. This information identifies and describes the fundamental characteristics of the tire and provides a U.S. DOT ﻿Tire Identification Number (TIN) for safety standard certification and for use in the event of a safety Recall Action by the manufacturer.
Tire composition and materials: Indicates the number of plies or the number of layers of rubber-coated fabric in the ﻿tire tread and sidewall. Additionally, ﻿tire manufacturers must indicate the materials in the ﻿tire and the sidewall, which can include steel, nylon, polyester, etc.
Tire installation guide: Display the tire orientation label INSIDE/OUTSIDE.
Tread wear grade: This number indicates the ﻿tire’s wear rate. The higher the tread wear number, the longer it should take to wear down the tread. Example: A ﻿tire rated at 400 for instance, lasts twice as long as a ﻿tire rated at 200.
Traction Grade: Indicates a tire’s ability to stop on wet roads. The traction grades, from highest to lowest are AA, A, B, and C. A ﻿tire with a higher grading ﻿tire should allow the vehicle to stop at a shorter distance than a lower graded ﻿tire.
Temperature grade: The temperature grades are A (the highest), B and C, representing the tire’s resistance to the generation of heat and its ability to dissipate heat. This grading is provided for a correctly inflated ﻿tire, which is being used within its speed and loading limits.
Tire Width: The 3-digit number is the ﻿tire width (one sidewall edge to another).
Aspect Ratio: The 2-digit number indicates the ﻿tire’s sidewall height as a percentage of the ﻿tire’s width. (Example: A ﻿tire designated P205/55 will have a ﻿tire height that is 55% of the width).
Tire Construction: ﻿Tire marked R indicates Radial Ply Construction.
Wheel Diameter: The 2-digit number is the diameter of the wheel or rim in inches.
Load Index and Speed Rating:
The 2 or 3 digit number indicates the maximum weight a ﻿tire can bear at its speed rating when inflated to its maximum pressure. It is an index and is not stated in pounds or any other unit of measurement.
The letter indicates the maximum speed at which a ﻿tire is designed to be driven for extended periods of time under a standard condition of load and inflation pressure.
Letter/Symbol
Maximum Speed (mph)
M
130 km/h (81 mph)
N
140 km/h (87 mph)
Q
160 km/h (99 mph)
R
170 km/h (106 mph)
S
180 km/h (112 mph)
T
190 km/h (118 mph)
U
200 km/h (124 mph)
H
210 km/h (130 mph)
V
240 km/h (149 mph)
W
270 km/h (168 mph)
Y
300 km/h (186 mph)
Maximum load: Indicates the maximum load (in lbs. and kg) which can be carried by the ﻿tire.
Maximum permissible inflation pressure: Indicates the ﻿tire manufacturers’ maximum permissible air pressure for the ﻿tire. Do not exceed the maximum permissible inflation pressure.
NOTE
Refer to the Tire and Loading Information label for recommended inflation pressure.
U.S. DOT ﻿Tire Identification Number (TIN): Begins with the letters DOT and indicates that the ﻿tire meets all federal standards. The next two numbers or letters indicate plant code where the ﻿tire was manufactured. Subsequent two numbers indicate ﻿Tire Size Code, and last four numbers indicate the week and year of ﻿tire manufacturing.
Example: The number 1712 is used to represent the 17th week of 2012. The other numbers are marketing codes used at the manufacturer’s discretion. This information can be used to contact consumers in the event of a safety recall action.
WARNING
Tire exhibiting excessive or uneven wear, or signs of damage should be replaced as soon as possible. Failure to replace tire in this condition may result in loss of control of the vehicle or reduced braking effectiveness.
Never exceed the maximum rated speed of the tire. This could cause a buildup of heat resulting in a burst tire and loss of vehicle control.
Always closely monitor the weather and road conditions while driving. Reduce the vehicle’s speed when driving on icy or slippery roads.
Always follow VinFast-approved tire/rim combinations when replacements are required. Different size of ﻿tire and wheels can result in unusual handling characteristics, poor vehicle control, or a negative impact on your vehicle’s Anti-Lock Brake System (ABS) resulting in a serious accident.
It is important to repair or replace a damaged tire as soon as possible as the spare ﻿tire is not designed for long term use.
Replacing only one tire may negatively affect vehicle handling, therefore it is recommended ﻿tire should be replaced in pairs, replacing two front tire or two rear tire at the same time.
It is normal for tire to degrade over time, even when not being used. VinFast recommends replacing tire after six (6) years of normal service, regardless of the remaining tread life.
NOTE
Not all information may be available on all tire.

# Vehicle Assistance


## Vehicle Recovery

Vehicle Jack & Tire Repair
A punctured ﻿tire can be repaired by using a ﻿tire Inflation Kit. In the case of extensive damage, you will need further support from Roadside Assistance.
NOTE
Driving with damaged ﻿tire can affect the handling and stopping performance of the vehicle.
Flat Tire Repair with Inflation Kit (if available)
The ﻿Tire Inflation Kit includes a fluid to seal the damaged ﻿tire and a compressor to inflate the ﻿tire. A repair using the ﻿Tire Inflation Kit is considered temporary and will allow you to stay mobile for a short period of time.
WARNING
Do not use the inflation kit to repair any damage to the ﻿tire side walls.
For safe operation, please read the instruction label located on the inflation kit.
A damaged or deflated ﻿tire should be repaired or replaced as soon as possible.
NOTE
The inflation kit can only be used on one flat ﻿tire at a time. Contact VinFast Service ﻿Centre if the sealant has been used and needs to be replaced.
The sealant has a limited lifespan. There is a label on the bottle that indicates the expiration date. The sealant needs to be replaced before it expires. Contact VinFast Service ﻿Centre for replacement.
The inflation kit fluid is only effective for repairing punctures with a diameter less than 6 mm. Do not remove the foreign object causing the puncture. Removing the object may widen the opening and make repair with the repair kit impossible.
Prior to commencing the ﻿tire repair process the instructions below must be followed:
Ensure the vehicle is at a safe location that does not affect normal traffic and work can be undertaken safely. Place the vehicle in Park (P), engage the parking brake and turn the vehicle OFF.
As the vehicle is not equipped with a warning triangle, please turn on the hazard lights and place warning items at an appropriate distance behind the vehicle as a safety precaution.
First remove tire valve cap.
If it is necessary to remove the puncture object and perform repair operation, move the punctured area to the 6‘clock position, and then fill the tire repair fluid into the tire. When using the product at temperature of -40°C to 0 °C, warm the product to a temperature above 0°C before use, it will improve the filling efficiency.
Tighten the connecting valve of the tire repair fluid bottle to the tire valve. Reinstall the valve cap on the tire.
Put the tire repair kit back to its position.
After fully inflating the tire, drive at least 10 km at a speed below 80 km/h to evenly distribute the product. If the tire remains fully inflated after this distance, normal driving speed can be resumed. If damage is apparent, contact roadside assistance.
Go to a professional tire repair shop as soon as possible. However, do not exceed a total distance of 500 km without having the tire repaired professionally.
If at any time after using this product the tire loses inflation, stop driving and call Roadside Assistance.
WARNING
If the ﻿tire repair fluid is splashed on the tire or rim during use, rinse with water or wipe it with a cloth. If it gets in your eyes, rinse immediately with water, and consult a doctor immediately.
Do not drive with a deflated ﻿tire that has not been repaired, even if the puncture has not caused the tire to deflate. A deflated ﻿tire may suddenly lose ﻿tire pressure at any time leading to loss of control of the vehicle or may lead to an accident.
Store the inflation kit at temperatures between -40°C to 85°C. Keep it away from open flames.
NOTE
Accelerate, brake, and corner gently.
It is recommended to visit a VinFast Service ﻿Centre as soon as possible.
Vehicle Jack (if equipped)
If your vehicle is equipped with a jack, you can use it to temporarily lift the vehicle, inspect or replace the wheels.
Jack usage
There are four jack lifting points at the bottom of the vehicle, and using a jack to support one of these points can lift one side of the wheel.
Look at the bottom of the vehicle and locate the lifting point closest to the wheel that needs to be inspected or replaced.
Place the jack under the jacking point of the body.
Match the socket on the jack-handle crank with the hexagonal nut on the jack.
Raise the car body using the jack. Turn the crank to the right (clockwise direction) to raise the vehicle until the ﻿tire is clear of the road.
Check the tire tread.
Turn the jack - handle crank to the left (anti-clockwise direction) to lower the vehicle to the ground.
Place the jack and other tools to the designated location in the rear cargo compartment.
WARNING
Do not lift the vehicle on a jack unless all the passengers have safely exited the vehicle.
Always lift the vehicle on a jack where the surface is firm and level, and ensure the jack is stable.
Position the jack only at the designated jacking points on the vehicle. Failure to comply may cause the jack to slip and cause serious injuries.
Do not work under a raised vehicle.
Use only the factory provided jack to lift the vehicle.
Do not touch the disc brakes or the area around the brakes as they can be extremely hot.
Changing wheel
To ensure safety during operation when changing tires, you should pay attention to the following points:
Torque:  110 ± 7 Nm
The direction of the nuts:  the beveled side of the nut should face inward and toward the rim as shown in the illustration below.
Tighten the nuts following the suspension pattern to ensure the force is evenly distributed, securely pressing the rim and hub together.
Jump-starting
If the 12V battery is discharged, the vehicle may be jump-started by another vehicle’s battery and jumper cables or by using a low voltage power supply such as a portable jump-starter.﻿ If jump-starting from another vehicle, follow the other vehicles manufacturing guidelines for jump-starting.
WARNING
Always read and follow instructions when handling a battery to avoid serious injury or death.
Wear correct personal protective equipment (PPE) when handling the battery. Failure in following the warning can cause serious injury or death.
Keep all forms of smoke, flames, and sparks away from the battery at all times. Failure to follow the warning can cause serious injury or death.
Do not allow the jumper cables to make contact with each other or any metal surface other than the correct terminals.
Ensure your vehicle is not connected to a high voltage charger when performing a jump-start. Failure to do so can cause serious injury or death.
The vehicle should not be used to jump start another vehicle as this could cause significant damage to your vehicle.
Do not try to jump start your vehicle if the outside temperatures are extremely low.
Connecting the jumper cables incorrectly can cause damage to the vehicle and potentially lead to a fire or explosion.
NOTE
Always ensure that only a 12V source is used to jump start the battery.
If your vehicle has no 12V power, proceed with the following:
Ensure the vehicle is OFF and in Park (P).
Open the hood, see > Front and Rear Compartments >   Front Hood  .
Locate the 12V battery.
Connect the red jumper cable to the positive (+) terminal of the vehicle’s battery.
Connect the other end of the red jumper cable to the positive (+) terminal of the good battery.
Connect the black jumper cable to the negative (-) terminal of the good battery.
Connect the other end of black jumper cable to the negative (-) ground point of the vehicle’s battery.
Start the vehicle with the good battery, and then proceed to power on your vehicle.
NOTE
If your vehicle does not start, please contact Roadside Assistance or have the vehicle checked by an ﻿authorised VinFast Service Centre﻿.
For safe battery disposal please refer to your country’s battery disposal and recycling laws.
Disconnecting jumper cables process:
Disconnect the black jumper cable from the negative (-) ground point of the vehicle’s battery.
Disconnect the other end of the black negative (-) jumper cable from the good battery.
Disconnect the red jumper cable from the positive (+) terminal of the vehicle’s battery.
Disconnect the other end of the red jumper cable from the positive (+) terminal of the good battery.
Towing (EV)
If the vehicle breaks down and towing is necessary, it is recommended to have any towing conducted by a professional towing service. When towing, four wheels or only rear wheels must not be in contact with the ground. The spinning wheels enable the regenerative braking system to generate electricity, which cannot be managed correctly while the vehicle is turned OFF. This may lead to over-heating of the system components.
WARNING
Do not use your vehicle to tow another vehicle.
If the vehicle has an electrical fault, it may pose as a safety hazard. Seek immediate assistance and keep away from the vehicle.
Do not transport the vehicle in a position where the wheels can spin, this may lead to significant damage and overheating of the operating systems. In rare cases of extreme overheating, it may cause the surrounding components to ignite.
CAUTION
Do not transport the vehicle using any method that is not recommended by VinFast.
Preparing Vehicle to be Towed
There is a towing hole on the right side of the front bumper of the vehicle; And equipped with a towing ring, stored in the toolbox in the cargo hold.
Before towing make sure to disengage the parking brake. Press the brake and turn ON tow mode on infotainment screen, then turn the vehicle OFF.
WARNING
The vehicle is equipped with high voltage components (see >   High Voltage Components Overview  ) that may be damaged in the event of a collision. It is important to assume these components are energized prior to transporting the vehicle.
Always follow high voltage safety precautions (wearing protective gear, etc.) until emergency response professionals have evaluated the vehicle and have confirmed that all high voltage systems are no longer operational. Failure to comply may result in a serious injury.
Release EPB
Tap  vehicle settings    >  Car Modes  .
Find  Tow Mode  , tap to select  Off/On .
Tap switch   to the  ON  position to release the parking brake.
NOTE
o activate Tow Mode, ensure the gear is in Park (P) then while pressing the brake pedal, switch Tow Mode ON.
When the tow mode is ON, a warning message will be display on infotaiment screen.
CAUTION
nly use this feature when the vehicle cannot change gears or has a fault requiring it to be towed.
Using the Tow Eye/Hook﻿:
Remove the trailer hook from the tool bag on the liftgate.
How to fit Front Tow eye﻿:
Find the towing hole cover plate   on the front bumper and push the right side to release it.
To access the tow eye mounting point, remove the cover.
Install the tow eye   inline Rectangle by turning it clockwise into the hole until it is fully secured.
To remove the tow eye rotate it anti-clockwise until it is loose.Reinstall the cover inline Rectangle  .
CAUTION
Ensure the tow eye is properly secured before towing the vehicle.
Approved Towing Methods
VinFast recommends getting professional help for towing and following the correct towing procedure to prevent damage to the vehicle.
A flatbed truck or similar recovery vehicle is recommended when transporting the vehicle.
Follow the tow eye attachment instruction described above prior to winching the vehicle. Attach the winch cable to the tow eye. Put the vehicle in Neutral (N), release  the EPB. Pull the vehicle slowly onto the flatbed truck.
The vehicle’s wheels must be tied down using the eight-point tie down method, to ensure the vehicle is secured properly on the truck bed.
CAUTION
Do not secure the vehicle using tie-down straps to the chassis, suspension, or other parts of the vehicle’s body as this may damage the vehicle.
Do not place tie-down straps over the vehicle’s body or through the wheels.
Ensure that the metal parts of the tie down do not come in contact with the vehicle’s paint.
If the vehicle cannot be transported on a flatbed truck and a conventional tow truck must be used, lift the rear wheels onto a dolly or mobile platform to ensure the rear wheels do not touch the ground. This method should only be used for a maximum distance of 50 km and should not exceed the speed recommended by the manufacturer of the dolly or mobile platform.

## Contact

Customer Care
VinFast Customer Care representatives are available Monday to Sunday 24 hours a day to assist with any of your vehicle needs. ﻿They can be contacted at:
VF Customer Care : 1900 23 23 89.

# Additional Information


## Reference

Data Storage and Processing
Your vehicle is fitted with electronic control units. Data is processed and generated by control units based on inputs from sensors. Your vehicle’s control units are used to keep the vehicle safe, support you while driving (driver assistance systems), and to enable convenience and infotainment functions.
In certain circumstances, the data generated or processed by control units can be considered personal data under the law. Depending on the vehicle data available, this data may reveal information about your driving behavior, your location, or your route, as well as your usage patterns.
For more information about VinFast’s personal data protection policy, please visit: https://vinfastauto.com/vn_vi/dieu-khoan-phap-ly ﻿ or scan QR code below:
To configure privacy settings:
Tap on your profile name on the status bar >  My Profile  >  Privacy .