============================================================
VINFAST OWNER MANUAL (HƯỚNG DẪN SỬ DỤNG SẢN PHẨM XE VINFAST)
Car Model: VF5
Version: 2024
Language: EN
Source URL: https://om.vinfastauto.com/
============================================================


# Introduction


## Owner Manual

Introduction
Congratulations and thank you for choosing the VF 5.
This Owner’s Manual describes all the features and operations of your new VinFast vehicle and contains important maintenance and safety related information designed to keep you safe throughout ownership.
The information contained in this manual is specific to your vehicle however certain descriptions of features, functions and displays may not apply depending on your chosen vehicle configuration, market region or software version.
Thoroughly familiarize yourself with the contents of this Owner’s Manual prior to operating your vehicle.
Owner Manual Version: VF5_23-26_VN_ENG_1.9.1
Important Note - High Voltage Battery
The VinFast VF 5 should only be operated with a VinFast genuine battery or a battery supplied by a VinFast authorized supplier.
VinFast, its authorized battery suppliers, the battery owner (if applicable), and their representatives, shall bear no responsibility for any damages or losses to the customer caused by the use of any non-VinFast battery in the vehicle or for not following the battery usage guidelines found in the Vehicle Owner’s Manual.
The use of any non-VinFast battery in the vehicle may void the VinFast Manufacturer’s Warranty and the warranty coverage for the vehicle. The failure to allow VinFast to replace the Battery in the vehicle, or to use, maintain and service the battery in accordance with instructions provided by VinFast (including the Battery Usage, Charging and Storing Guidelines), also may void the VinFast Manufacturer’s Warranty.
If the customer chooses the Battery subscription option, the customer shall sign a battery subscription option contract with the owner of the battery.
If the customer breaches any obligation of the Battery subscription, they agree that the battery owner can take possession of the battery by any method permitted by law including:
Limiting the level of charge;
Utilization of geolocation technology in the battery or vehicle to locate the Battery for purposes of repossession; and
Pursue any other remedies permitted by law.
If the customer chooses to resell the vehicle, or any other case that might lead to the transfer of vehicle title, the customer shall be responsible for:
Informing the purchaser that the battery is leased property owned by a third party and not the customer; and
Shall cooperate with the battery owner to ensure a seamless transfer of the battery at the same time the vehicle is transferred.
Owner Manual Information
This Owner’s Manual will familiarize you with all the features, functions, equipment and maintenance needs of your vehicle.
An initial overview of the vehicle is covered in the next section and provides the name and location of the key exterior and interior features and components.
Warning, Caution and Notes
The Owner’s Manual contains safety precautions and operating procedures. Failure to follow the safety warnings and instructions may lead to serious injury or even death.
To highlight content of importance, the following message formats will be show:
WARNING
Critical information, often involving safety related content that if not avoided could result in death or serious injury.
CAUTION
Important information relating to a situation, which if ignored, could result in damage to your vehicle.
NOTE
Key points of useful information.
For all intermediate and major repairs, please contact an authorized service center to complete the work. Owners may be able to perform minor tasks on there vehicle where clear instructions have been provided in this manual.
Using the Printed Manual
A printed Owner’s Manual is provided with your vehicle and is placed in the glove box at the time of vehicle delivery.
The fastest way to find information on a particular topic is by using the Table of Contents and the index at the rear of the manual.
Using the Digital Manual
An online interactive version of the owner manual can be accessed on any compatible Web-browser, as well as on the VinFast App. An integrated version of this owner manual is also available to view in vehicle on the infotainment touchscreen.
To access the Integrated Owner’s Manual in your VF5, follow the steps below:
Press the     button.
Press the “Owner’s Manual” App icon.
Use navigation buttons and search functionality to locate required content.
Applicable Content & Images
The information and specifications contained in the VF 5 owner’s manual are accurate at the time of publication. Some functions described in this Owner’s Manual may not be applicable to your vehicle level, activated or available at the time of delivery including applications embedded in the infotainment system or the VinFast App. Content is continuously being refined and software updates will be released to improve feature functionality of your vehicle.
Any major updates made after the print deadline will be reflected in the digital Owner’s Manual that can be accessed and viewed at   https://om.vinfastauto.com/  .
The illustrations and images provided in this manual are for demonstration purposes only. Depending on vehicle variants, customization options, software version and market region, the information displayed on the touchscreen in your vehicle may appear differently to what is shown in the owner’s manual. All directions referenced in the content such as, left, right, front and rear are based on the vehicles direction of travel.
VinFast reserves the right to change specifications, design or equipment, at any time, without notice and without incurring any obligation.
Copyright & Trademarks
All rights reserved. All content within this Owner’s Manual is subject to copyright and other intellectual property rights of VinFast Trading and Production Joint Stock Company. This documentation should not be copied, modified or reused in anyway without prior written permission.

# Overview


## Vehicle Overview

Electric Vehicle Ownership
Your vehicle is powered by electricity and as a result some of the vehicle’s systems and operating characteristics are different from a vehicle powered by an internal combustion engine.
It is important to carefully review this entire owner’s manual for this reason. The key difference is that your vehicle is powered by electricity. The vehicle does not require and it is not capable of using gasoline like a vehicle powered by a traditional internal combustion engine.
The vehicle uses energy stored in the lithium ion (Li-ion) battery. The vehicle’s Li-ion battery must be charged with electricity before the vehicle can be driven. As the vehicle operates, the Li-ion battery gradually discharges. If the Li-ion battery becomes completely discharged, the vehicle will not operate until it is re-charged.
The vehicle uses two types of batteries. One is a 12-volt (low voltage) battery that is the same as the battery in vehicles that operate on gasoline powered engines, the other is the Li-ion battery which may be referred to as the High Voltage (HV) or Electric Vehicle (EV) battery in this Owner’s Manual. The 12-volt battery provides power to the vehicle systems and features such as the infotainment system, supplemental restraint systems, headlights and windshield wipers.
The high voltage Li-ion battery provides power to the electric motor that drives the vehicle. The vehicle must be plugged in for the Li-ion battery to be charged.
Your vehicle is also equipped with a regenerative braking system which allows the vehicle to convert kinetic energy into electrical energy which can be used to recharge the battery increasing overall range.
This vehicle is considered to be an environmentally friendly vehicle because it does not emit exhaust gases, such as carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxide.
Exterior Overview
Wheels and Tires
Wheels and Tires >   Wheels and Tires
Charge port
Charging Instructions >   Charging Instructions
Front Wipers
Wipers and Washers >   Front Wipers
Door handle
Doors >   Exterior Door
Antenna
windshield
Side Mirrors
Mirrors > Side Mirrors & Exterior Lighting >   Turn Signals
Front Hood
Openings and Compartments > Storage >   Front Hood
Head Lights
Exterior Lighting >   Exterior Lighting - Front
Rear Wiper
Wipers and Washers >   Rear Wipers
Liftgate
Front and Rear Compartments >   Liftgate
Rear Parking Sensors
Park Assist >   Rear Parking Assist
Rear camera
Park Assist >   Surround View Monitoring System
Tail Lights
Exterior Lighting >   Exterior Lighting - Rear (Tail Lights)
Center High Mount Stop Lamp
Exterior Lighting >   Exterior Lighting - Rear (Tail Lights)
Interior Overview
Power window switches
Windows >   Windows Control
Interior door handles
Doors >   Interior Door
Indicator and Body Computer Stalk
Exterior Lighting >   Turn Signals   and Economy & Environment >   Trip History
Horn
Wiper and Washer Stalk
Driving >   Wipers and Washers
Rear view mirror
Mirrors & gt;  Rear View Mirror
Instrument Cluster Display
Displays
MHU Display
Touchscreen >   Touchscreen Overview
Glove Box
Storage >   Glove Box
Air Vents
Climate Control System >   Air Vents
Center Console Storage
Storage >   Center Console Storage
Hazard Switch
Exterior Lighting >   Hazard Warning Flashers
Central Locking Switch
Keys and Locks >   Central Locking Overview
Park Brake Handle
Steering Wheel Switches – Driving Assistance Controls
Steering Wheel >   Functions
Gear Shift
Steering Wheel
Driving >   Steering Wheel
Steering wheel Switches
--Multimedia and Call Controls
Steering Wheel >   Functions
Door Pocket Storage
Storage >   Door Pocket Storage
Seats and Seatbelts
Seats, Restraints & Safety >   Seats,
Seats, Restraints & Safety >   Seatbelts
Sun Visor
Roof Lights
Interior Lighting >   Roof Lights
Rear Power window switch
Windows > Window Controls
Door Pocket Storage
Storage >  Door Pocket Storage
USB sockets
Phone & Projection > USB Ports & Power Outlets
Rear seats
Seats, Restraints & Safety >   Seats
Charging Overview
Charging port door
Charging port
Charging gun

# Openings & Compartments


## Keys and Locks

Central Locking Overview
Interior Lock and Unlock
Unlock four doors:
Press the interior central locking switch to unlock and lock the vehicle. When the vehicle is locked, the working indicator of the switch above is on.
CAUTION
The vehicle is equipped with a lock protection function. When the switch is pressed repeatedly, the vehicle door lock will temporarily stop working. After a period of time, the function will return to normal.
Key Fob Overview
Overview
The vehicle is supplied with remote key fobs which support a number of functions, including locking, unlocking and starting the vehicle. The remote key is paired to only to your vehicle.
No
Function
Action
Unlock
Short press
Control window down
Depending on the software version, you can use one of the following two methods:
- Press and hold. Or
- Press once quickly, then press again and hold.
Open tailgate
Long press
Lock
Short press
Locating the car
Double press (Horn)
Indicator
Mechanical key release
The remote key uses Radio Frequency (RF) technology to communicate wirelessly with the vehicle. The remote key also contains a mechanical key that can be used when the remote key battery is depleted.
CAUTION
Please take care of the key to prevent damage. Avoid contact with solvents, waxes and abrasive cleaners.
Key Fob Battery
The battery will slowly deplete over time, even when the key is not being used. The following symptoms may exist to indicate your key fob battery is low:
Wireless remote functions do not work or have reduced performance.
A vehicle alert will be displayed on the IPC.
In this instance, replace the battery with a new battery of the correct type. If the remote key fob battery voltage is too low a LED indicator brightness will reduces.
To replace the Key Fob battery:
Remove the mechanical key by pressing the latch   on the back of the key fob while pulling the mechanical key   out.
Use a small flat tool to gently open the back cover of the key fob.
Remove the internal battery cover by pulling the latch.
Remove the old battery and insert the new one, making sure the battery is in the correct orientation. Battery Number: CR2032.
Reinstall the black internal battery cover by pressing it into place.
Reinstall the key fob back cover ensuring it clicks into place.
Insert the mechanical key back into its slot.
CAUTION
When changing the battery, do not touch any of the circuitry on the remote key. Static from your body could damage the remote key.
Do not replace the battery with an incorrect type. Doing so may cause a potential risk of key malfunction and battery explosion.
Dispose of the used batteries according to instructions and local laws.
Do not crush, cut or burn the battery. Do not expose the batteries to environments with extremely low air pressures or extremely high temperatures.
Do not dispose of batteries in household waste. They must be disposed of at an appropriate battery recycling point.
Key Fob replacement
In case of accidental loss or damage a replacement key will be required to be paired to the vehicle via a VinFast Service Center.
Remote Key Functions
Remote Lock/Unlock
The vehicle can be locked and unlocked using buttons on the key fob.
To unlock the doors via the key fob:
Press   to unlock.
To lock the doors via the key fob:
Press   to lock.
NOTE
Before locking the doors via the keyfob, please ensure that all doors are closed.
WARNING
Before driving, make sure that all doors are locked.
If the doors are not fully locked, the door may suddenly open during driving, potentially causing an accident leading to serious injury or death.
Mechanical Key
Overview
The mechanical key is integrated into the vehicle key fob. The mechanical key can be used to open the doors manually in case the key fob battery is drained.
To release the mechanical key:
Press the latch   on the remote key.
Pull out the mechanical key  .
To unlock or lock the door with the mechanical key:
Insert the key into the key cylinder of the driver door  .
Rotate the key   clockwise to unlock or anti-clockwise to lock.
Deactivate the alarm mode with the key fob:
Press the unlocking button on the key to release the alarm mode.
NOTE
When the door is locked/unlocked with a mechanical key, all doors are locked/unlocked at the same time.

## Doors

Exterior Door
Manual Door Latch
In the event that the remote key battery is depleted, the vehicle can be accessed using the mechanical backup key and manual door lock. To access the vehicle using this method:
Press the latch on the remote key to remove the manual key.
Insert the key into the key barrel located on the driver-side door. Turn the key clockwise to unlock.
Turn the key counter-clockwise to lock.
NOTE
When the door is locked/unlocked with the mechanical key, all doors are locked/unlocked at the same time.
Method for Unlocking with Inner Handle
When the vehicle is locked, passengers can use the inner door handle to unlock the vehicle.
Pull the inner door handle once to unlock the vehicle.
Pull the inner door handle a second time to open the door.
WARNING
Observe your surroundings when closing the door to ensure safety.
Interior Door
To open the doors from inside the vehicle, door handles are provided on all four doors.
To open a door from the inside:
1. If locked, pull the inner door handle   twice to unlock the door.
2. Pull the inner door handle   a second time and push the door outward to open the door.
NOTE
To prevent children opening the rear doors using the interior door handles, engage the rear door child locks. See >   Child Rear Door Locks
WARNING
Children can fall out of the open doors while the vehicle is moving. Make sure all the doors are properly locked before starting driving.Always use the Child Safety Door Lock when traveling with children. All passengers should wear seatbelt and all the doors must be locked when driving.
Child Rear Door Lock
The Child Rear Door Lock feature prevents the rear doors from being opened from inside the vehicle, enhancing rear occupant and child safety. When this lock is engaged, the rear doors can only be opened by using the exterior door handle.
To activate child rear door lock on right hand side door
Open the rear door.
Locate the child door lock positioned inboard of the right hand side door latch  .
Insert the mechanical key in the lock   and rotate the key in a clockwise direction to activate feature.﻿ Gently rotate the key approximately 45 degrees.
To activate child rear door lock on left hand side door
Open the rear door.
Locate the child door lock positioned inboard of the left hand side door latch  .
Insert the mechanical key in the lock   and rotate the key in a anti-clockwise direction to activate feature. Gently rotate the key approximately 45 degrees.
WARNING
Never leave children unattended in the vehicle.
Ensure all doors are closed and locked prior to driving.
It is recommended to use the child rear door lock feature to prevent children from opening the rear doors while driving which could result in serious injury or death.
Do not rotate the key beyond 45 degrees. Excessive rotation may damage the locking mechanism.
NOTE
The child rear door lock feature does not lock the doors from the outside.

## Front and Rear Compartments

Liftgate
Tailgate:
The tailgate is located at the rear of the vehicle, and provides access to the rear storage compartment. The tailgate operates as long as the key fob is in range.
Opening the tailgate:
To open the tailgate, press the lower part of the tailgate lock switch.
Closing the tailgate:
To close the tailgate, press the tailgate.
WARNING
Do not allow children to operate the tailgate.
When closing the tailgate, exercise caution to ensure that you do not pinch any parts of your body, possibly causing serious injury.
Do not carry passengers in the trunk.
WARNING
Do not let children play in the trunk. If trapped inside, excessive temperature inside the vehicle may cause severe personal injury or death.
The tailgate must be used in the fully open state. If it is left ajar, injuries can result from the tailgate falling.
Make sure the tailgate is fully closed before driving. Otherwise, the tailgate may suddenly open during driving, causing an accident.
If you use too much force when operating the tailgate, the tailgate may be damaged.
Be careful when opening and closing the tailgate in a strong wind environment. The tailgate may open too much under strong winds, causing the tailgate to deform.
Emergency safety release:
Insert a long, flat object into the opening at the bottom of the tailgate.
Slide the latch in the direction of the arrow to unlock the tailgate.
CAUTION
If the tailgate can only be opened using the emergency operation, there may be an issue with the tailgate. Please visit a VinFast Service Center to check your vehicle.
Front Hood
To access the front hood:
Pull up the hood open switch located on the underside of the driver’s dashboard. This will release the hood latch, and allow the hood to pop open a small amount.
Approach the front of the vehicle, and reach into the gap provided by pulling the hood open switch. Locate the lever concealed beneath the hood, and turn the lever counterclockwise to open the hood.
Whilst supporting the hood, pull the support rod from the retaining clip on the underside of the hood, and place the end of support rod into the designated hole in the hood inner panel. Once the rod is securely fixed in the correct position, the hood will be held open, providing access to the front motor compartment.
To close the hood:
Lift  the hood slightly and remove the support rod from the designated hole.
Place the support rod back into the retaining clip.
Lower the hood, and at a height of about 30 cm from the fender, check that the surrounding area is clear, release the hood, allowing it to slam shut.
Check that the latch has engaged securely and the hood can not be re-opened.
WARNING
Before driving, ensure that the hood is closed and locked securely. If the hood is not shut, it may open during driving, possibly resulting in a situation leading to serious injury and/or death.
Do not slam the hood with excessive force, or this may cause damage to the latch and hood.
Do not install accessories other than original VinFast products on the hood. This may increase the weight of the hood, and cause the hood support to fail.
Do not pull the bracket by hand or pull it laterally, otherwise the bracket may be bent and the hood may not be opened and closed.

## Windows

Window Controls
Key Overview
The vehicle windows can be controlled using the window switches, which are located on the driver’s side door and the passenger side doors.
Driver Side Door
Driver window switch
Front Passenger window switch
Rear Left window switch
Rear Right window switch
Passenger Side Door:
To open and close the windows:
Locate the window control switches on the driver’s side front door   or passenger side doors  .
Push the window switch down slightly to OPEN.
Pull the window switch up slightly to CLOSE.
Release the switch at any time to stop window travel.
Auto-Opening/Closing (Anti-pinch)
Depending on your vehicle model and/or market, only driver’s door have anti-pinch mode.
To fully open the window automatically, push the window button completely down, the power window will open until the window reaches the lowest position.
To fully close the window automatically, pull the window button completely up, the power window will close until the window reaches the highest position.
CAUTION
Do not open or close two windows or more at the same time to prevent possible damage to the power window system. This will also ensure long life of the fuse. Never try to operate the main switch on the driver’s door and the individual door window switch in opposite directions at the same time. If this is done, the window will stop and cannot be opened or closed.
WARNING
Before closing the power window, make sure that no one is near the power window. At the same time, make sure that all passengers heads, hands and other parts of the body are inside the car.
Do not allow children to use power window switches without supervision. A window lock switch can be used to prevent them from accidentally using the power window.
Be sure to bring your key with you when you leave the vehicle.
Safety Functions
Child Window Lockout
The child window lockout button prevents rear seat passengers from operating the windows by deactivating rear seat window controls. This helps to provide additional safety for rear-seated children who may accidentally open windows, and exit the vehicle while in motion.
NOTE
It is recommended that the child window lockout is used whenever children are seated in the rear seats.
To Activate / Deactivate the child window lockout:
Press the switch highlighted below to activate rear power windows lockout. The indicator beside the switch will be illuminated.
To deactivate, press again. The indicator beside the switch will be turned off.
Anti-Pinch Safety Function
If the window glass detects an obstacle while closing it will automatically stop and return to the fully open position. Only driver’s door has anti-pinch mode.
Overload Protection
To avoid electrical overload, the window operation is disabled for a short period of time if the switch is repeatedly operated at short intervals. The anti-pinch learning function needs to be performed again in order to reactivate auto-up function at driver’s window.
Initialize Windows
If the windows cannot be closed automatically via the express up function (e.g. after disconnecting the vehicle 12V battery or after replacing the Anti Pinch Module fuse), you may be required to re-initialize the windows.
To initialize windows:
Close the doors
Switch on the ignition
Close the window completely and keep the switch pulled for additional 2 seconds
Repeat for each window
WARNING
During the initialization learning process, the car window has no anti-pinch function. Do not use any part of your body or other objects to obstruct the closing of the car window, otherwise it will cause damage and affect the result of the initialization learning. If the power window system fails, please visit your nearest VinFast Service Center.

## Storage

Glove Box
The vehicle glove box is located in the lower section of the dashboard, in front of the passenger seat.
To open the glove box:
Pull the handle toward you in the direction as shown
CAUTION
Close the glove box door gently. Do not use excessive force.
WARNING
Do not put heavy or sharp objects in the glove box. In an accident, these objects may cause the glove box to open and could result in serious injury.
Never leave the glove box door open. A passenger may suffer serious injuries due to an open glove box door in the event of an accident.
Ensure that glove box is closed while driving.
Center Console
The center console is located between the driver and front passenger seats. The center console contains a central storage bin.
Center Console Storage
The center console storage bin is located beside the handbrake handle. It can be used to store small items inside the storage bin.
WARNING
Never store flammable items in the vehicle.
To avoid vehicle damage, disconnect all USB cables from the vehicle when not in use. USB cables left plugged into the vehicle, unconnected to a device, could be damaged or cause an electrical short if the unconnected end comes in contact with liquids or another power source such as the accessory power outlet. Use cups of the right size and which have lids. The content could otherwise spill.
Door Pocket Storage
The vehicle features door pocket storage for both front   and rear   passengers.
The door pockets are designed to store drink bottles and other small personal items.
Please ensure that any items stored within the door pockets fit properly in the compartment. If the bottles or other items are too large for the door pockets, please store them in another safe location, such as the rear trunk.
WARNING
Any unsafely stored items within door pockets may become loose during vehicle operation. Such items may come out from the compartment when the vehicle is in motion and may lead to situations resulting in serious injury or death.
Avoid storing glass items in door pockets. Such items may break whilst driving and may cause serious injuries to passengers.
When storing drink bottles in door pockets, always ensure that the bottle cap is fully tightened.
Cup Holder
The vehicle has a  Cup Holder    for the storage of beverages and other small items. The cup holders are located in between the front seats, in the Center Console.
WARNING
Do not put anything other than cups, beverage cans or the vehicle key in the cup holder. If the vehicle has not detected the key, see   Key and Locks > Safety Functions  .
In the event of an accident or emergency braking, such items may be thrown out of the cup holder, resulting in personal injury. If there are hot drinks, please tighten the cover tightly to avoid scalding.
Rear Cargo Compartment
The rear cargo compartment provides storage for larger pieces of luggage or objects that need to be stored securely, including the vehicle tools (if equipped) and spare wheel (if equipped), that may be stored in this compartment under the cargo load floor.
To remove the cargo load floor cover  , pull up on the tab.
WARNING
When braking suddenly, loose objects may get thrown into the interior of the vehicle increasing the risk of an accident or personal injury.
Never exceed the permitted axle load.
Never leave your vehicle unattended, especially if the Liftgate is open. Children may enter the luggage compartment and close the Liftgate from the inside. Children may get trapped inside which can result in injury or death.
Do not allow small children to play in the vehicle. When you leave the vehicle, close and lock the Liftgate as well as all other doors.
Parcel Shelf (if equipped)
The vehicle is fitted with a rear parcel shelf located behind the back seats. The parcel shelf provides a barrier to objects entering the cabin and reduces cabin noise.
To remove the rear parcel shelf:
Fold both rear seats forward.   See > Seat Adjustment > Rear Seat Fold
Remove the drawstrings on both sides of the parcel shelf  .
Push the parcel shelf upwards in vehicle to disengage the 2 parcel shelf retainers  .
Slide the parcel shelf upwards to remove.
To install the rear parcel shelf:
Fold both rear seats forward.   See > Seat Adjustment > Rear Seat Fold
Pass the parcel shelf into the vehicle via the rear doors
Lift the parcel shelf and align the locating openings with the cones in the C Pillar Lower Trim.
Pull shelf downwards to lock in place.
Attach the two drawstrings of the parcel shelf to the two sides.
CAUTION
The hinges and locating brackes of the parcel shelf are not designed to bear heavy loads, do not apply excessive force while installing or removing the parcel shelf. Using excessive force can break or damage the parcel shelf.
WARNING
Do not store any objects on the parcel shelf. In the event of sudden braking, maneuvering, or an accident the objects can come loose risking personal injury to occupants.
Spare tire and Tools (if equipped)
The spare tire is aftersales optional part. Choosing different configration would have different items to be offered. The spare tire and tools (if equipped) are located under the cargo load floor cover in the rear luggage compartment. The following items may be found under the cargo load floor cover according to the chosen configration:
Tools with Spare Tire
Spare Tire (Aftersales optional)
Lifting Jack
Jack Rocker
Wheel nut Crank
Towing Eye
Tools without Spare Tire
Tire Repair Liquid   (if equipped)
Towing Eye
For details on how to change a tire   see > Vehicle Recovery > Vehicle Jack and tire repair.
WARNING
Do not exceed the speed limit of 80km/h when spare tire is fitted or after appling tire repair liquid.

## Vehicle Security

Immobilizer
The immobilizer is an electrical device fitted to the vehicle which aims to deter vehicle theft by preventing the vehicle from being started without the appropriate key fob. The immobilizer functions automatically without the need for manual activation or intervention.
The immobilizer indicator will be displayed briefly on the instrument panel when starting the vehicle. If the immobilizer system recognizes the key fob correctly, the indicator light will turn off.
If however the system does not recognize the coding of the key fob, the indicator light will flash. This may prevent the vehicle from starting. If this occurs please ensure you have the correct key fob in the vehicle, remove any metal objects around the key which can cause interference. If this repeatedly occurs and inhibits the vehicle from starting, it is recommended to contact a VinFast Service Center.
CAUTION
Do not leave keys anywhere in the vehicle.
The immobilizer and key fob work together to allow you to start/stop your vehicle. Avoid any exposure to moisture or static electricity, and misuse of the key fob to avoid malfunction of the immobilizer.
Do not tamper with electrical devices in the vehicle, this can cause terminal vehicle issues.
When one key is left in the vehicle and another key is used to lock the vehicle, the key in the vehicle will not be able to start the vehicle, and IMMO certification is required to enable the disabled key.
Locks and Anti-Theft
Locks and Anti-Theft help to protect the vehicle and its contents from break in.
Locks
To set the vehicle locks
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap Settings   >  Convenience  >  Locks
Set the vehicle locks
Default is Light and Horn selected
Remote Lock/ Unlock feedback screen: Default is Light and Horn selected.
Auto Unlock Doors: Defaults is toggle Off.
Door Auto lock: Default is 10 km/h. Select between: 5, 10, 15, 20 and 25 or toggle OFF.
Anti-Theft
Default is Light and Horn selected.
To set the Anti-Theft
Tap  App Library    on the Infotainment screen.
Tap Settings   >  Convenience  >  Anti-Theft
Set the Anti-Theft
Default is Light and Horn selected.

# Seats, Restraints & Safety


## Seats

Seats Overview
Front Seats
Please follow all seating guidelines to ensure optimum protection during an accident. Seats, headrests, seatbelts, and airbags work together to ensure passenger safety.
Ensure that the seat position is adjusted to your level of comfort and for an optimal driving experience. Use the handles located on the side of the seat to adjust.
As you adjust the seat, make sure to maintain the recommended distance from the steering wheel and the airbag.
NOTE
Wear seatbelt for the entire duration of your drive.
For more information regarding correct seating positions.   See > Correct and incorrect seating positions
NOTE
The vehicle has 6 way manual adjustment for driver seat and 4 way manual adjustment for passenger seat.
Rear Seats
Please follow all seating guidelines to ensure optimum seating comfort and protection during an accident. Seats, headrests, seatbelts, and airbags work together to ensure passenger safety.
NOTE
Always wear seatbelts when traveling in the vehicle.
The rear seats of your vehicle are designed so that they can be folded to increase the luggage capacity.   See > Rear Seat Fold.
For more information regarding correct seating positions   See > Correct and incorrect seating positions
NOTE
The vehicles are fitted with a 2-way manual rear seat headrest adjustment.
Seat Adjustment
The vehicle is fitted with a driver’s seat, and four passenger seats. The following section describes how the seats can be adjusted to provide a safe and comfortable experience.
WARNING
Under no circumstances should more than five occupants be inside the vehicle whilst it is in motion. Having more than the prescribed number of occupants inside a moving vehicle is dangerous to all occupants, even to those who may be safely restrained.
Front Seat Adjustment
Forwards/Rearward adjustment:
To move the seat forward or rearward pull the lever  , then move the seat in the intended direction of travel, release to lock the seat in position.
Seat height (if equipped):
To move the seat cushion upward or downward, pull/push the handle   upward or downward as shown.
Seat back angle adjustment:
To adjust the backrest, rotate the recliner handle   clockwise while leaning on the seatback to set the desired angle. Once adjusted, release the handle to lock the seatback in place.
CAUTION
Adjust your seat position before wearing seatbelt.
Keep the fingers clear of moving elements of the seat while adjusting, it may get caught.
WARNING
Seating in a reclined position when vehicle is in motion can be dangerous.
Sitting in a moving vehicle with a reclined seat back increases your chance of serious or fatal injuries in the event of a collision or sudden stop.
All occupants in a moving vehicle must keep their seat backs upright and must keep their seatbelts fastened at all times.
Supervise children while they operate power seat adjustments, make sure that they don’t hurt themselves.
Adjust the driver’s seat only when the vehicle is stationary. Adjusting the seat while driving is dangerous, and can result in an accident.
Drivers and passengers should always sit well back in their seats, with seatbelts properly fastened and backrests upright. Failure to do this could result in serious injury or death in the event of an accident.
Driver and front passenger should sit as far rearward as possible to reduce risk of injury from a deploying airbag.
Do not put any luggage, loose items or pets on the front passenger seat.
Headrest Adjustment
To adjust the Headrest Height:
The headrest height can be raised or lowered. The headrest should always be set and locked into a suitable position such that the center is aligned with the center of the ears when occupied by a passenger.
Press the locking button   on the outboard side of the headrest.
Lower the headrest to the desired height.
Release the locking button to lock the headrest in the new position
WARNING
Do not adjust the headrest of the driver’s seat while driving.
If headrests are not installed and adjusted properly, there is a greater chance that occupants will suffer a neck/spinal injury in an event of an accident. Do not drive until the headrestraints for all occupants are installed and adjusted properly.
Do not let any occupant occupy a seat with the headrestraint removed or reversed.
Adjust the headrest as close to the passenger’s head as possible.
Do not use a seat cushion that holds the occupants body away from the seat back.
Make sure the headrest locks into position after adjusting it.
Rear Seat Adjustment
To fold the rear seat back:
The rear seats are designed in a way such that they can be folded to increase the boot capacity of the vehicle. To fold down the rear seats:
Remove all items from the rear seats
Place the rear seatbelt buckles in their pockets
Pull the lever located at   or   the top side of each outboard seating position.
Fold the seat back as required.
Release to lock the seat back position.
The rear seats can be folded separately, or both seats can be fully folded down. To return the rear seats to the upright position pull adjustment lever and simultaneously push the seat upwards towards the rear and ensure it is locked in position.
CAUTION
When returning the rear seat backrests to the upright position, ensure that seatbelt is not caught behind the seat.
Before adjusting the rear seat backrests, the car should be parked on level ground with parking brake applied.
Make sure to clear the rear seats before folding the seat back forward.
Do not put heavy items on the seats when they are folded, it may damage the folding mechanism.
The rear seating positions have a 2-way manually-adjustable headrest.
To adjust the height, push the mechanical button, pull or press the Headrest to adjust the height.
The headrest-height locks into 1 block, 25mm in total.
WARNING
Do not adjust the rear seats while driving, it can cause serious injury.
Do not allow children to play inside the vehicle when the rear seats are folded, it can cause injury.
Make sure to keep hands, fingers, feet or other body parts away from the swivel area while folding the rear seat backrest forwards and backwards.
Make sure each rear seat backrest has locked securely in its position, otherwise the seatbelts for the rear seats will not offer maximum protection. If a seat is occupied and the corresponding rear seat backrest has not locked securely into place, the seat occupant and rear seat backrest may move forwards in the event of a sudden braking or during accidents.
Do not put any heavy loose luggage on the rear seats or inside passenger compartment, in case of an emergency braking or maneuvering situation the luggage me fly and hit a passenger.
When returning a seat back to its upright position, make sure that it is firmly locked.
Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions
Sitting in a correct seating position is very important to ensure both driver and passenger safety. Follow these recommendations for proper seating:
The driver/passengers feet must be on the floor.
The driver and passenger should not slide forward on the seat.
The backrest must be in an upright position and the occupants back should be resting against it.
The backrest should not be reclined to a laying down position when the vehicle is in motion.
Every occupant should make sure that they are sitting at the center of each designated seat, sitting in a haphazard manner (offset from the seat center, sideways, etc) can cause fatal injury in case an accident.
Children should not lean against the dashboard area. Arms of the driver should be just slightly bent (around 120 degrees).
All occupants of the vehicle must wear seatbelts when the car is in motion.
See > Seats > Seat Adjustments > Headrest Adjustment   for correct headrest positioning.
Examples of incorrect seating position:
Example of correct seating position:
WARNING
Make sure to check the driver’s seating position before driving, improper seating position can compromise optimal driving condition and safety.
Adjust the driver’s seating position only when the car is parked safely.
Make sure to check surroundings before changing seat position, to avoid injury to other passengers or damaging the seat.

## Seat Belts

Seatbelt Use
Vehicle seatbelts provide the most effective way to protect occupants in the event of a serious vehicle accident. Always ensure all passengers have fastened their seatbelts before the vehicle is driven.
Wearing a seatbelt while driving a vehicle is required by law in most jurisdictions.
Wearing Seatbelts
The vehicle is equipped with three-point seatbelts with pre-tensioners. The seatbelt pre-tensioners is designed to tighten the seatbelt automatically by reducing the slack in both the lap and shoulder portions of the belt in the event the vehicle experiences a sudden force resulting from a hard acceleration, braking, cornering, or a collision.
Correct Seating Position:
A correct seating position is very important to ensure driver and passenger safety. Follow all recommended seating guidelines to lower the chances of injury in the event of an accident.
See >   Seats > Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions   for more information.
WARNING
If the occupants of the front seats are close to the steering wheel or Infotainment display, the airbag system may not provide optimal protection, which increases the risk of injury or death.
Do not place your feet on the front passenger seat back.
To fasten a Seatbelt:
Ensure a correct sitting position.
Advance the seatbelt from its retracted position. Make sure that the belt is not twisted and lays flat across the occupant’s body (shoulders, torso, and pelvic region), as shown  .
Insert the latch plate into the buckle  , make sure that the latch plate clicks into locked condition.
Pull the seatbelt to check that it is fastened securely.
Pull the diagonal part of the seatbelt over the occupant’s torso and shoulders towards the retractor, to remove any excess slack  .
To unfasten the Seatbelt:
Hold the belt near the buckle   to avoid the seatbelt hitting the occupant while retracting.
Press the red button on the buckle  , to release the latch plate and set the seatbelt free.
Make sure that the seatbelt does not get stuck while retracting.
WARNING
While releasing the seatbelt, hold the latch firmly and guide the seatbelt slowly back to its retracted position to avoid injury from seatbelt lashing.
Wearing a seatbelt whilst pregnant
If pregnant, particular attention should be taken when wearing a seatbelt to protect the mother and child. The lap belt should be worn snugly and as low as possible around the hips ensuring it does not press on the abdomen. The shoulder belt strap should be worn across the shoulder and to the side of the abdomen, ensuring it is not across the stomach area. If unsure, please consult a doctor for specific medical recommendations.
WARNING
A pregnant woman should never wear the seatbelt across the stomach area. This could lead to serious injuries to the fetus and/or the pregnant mother.
Never wear twisted seatbelts. Excessive forces will be transferred from the belt to the wearer, in a collision, resulting in serious personal injury.
Do not place the lap or shoulder sections of the seatbelt over the abdominal area.
In the event of and accident, never place items to cushion the impact between the passenger and the seatbelt.
Seatbelt Warning Indicator
Driver and Passenger seatbelt status:
The seatbelt warning light   (see >   Displays, Connections and Climate > Instrument Panel Cluster > Warning Lights and Indicators  ) will illuminate on the touchscreen if any occupied front or rear seatbelt is unbuckled while the vehicle is on.
If the driver then proceeds to drive above 20 km/h without the seatbelt(s) fastened, a chime will also sound.
NOTE
The front passenger seatbelt warning can come on if luggage or heavy objects are placed on the front passenger seat.
WARNING
Seatbelts must be used by all passengers whenever the vehicle is moving.
Never unfasten a seatbelt while driving for any reason.
Do not use a seatbelt if the retractor mechanism or any other part of the seatbelt is damaged. Visit a VinFast Service Center to get it replaced.
User’s should not modify or tamper with the seatbelt or its mechanisms, it may lead to failure of the system.
Do not latch the seatbelt into the buckles of other seats.
Do not keep the seat back of a seat in reclined position while the vehicle is in motion.
Do not wear the shoulder belt under your arm or behind your back.
Do not wear the seatbelt with any part of the strap twisted. A twisted seatbelt will not function properly in an accident.
Multiple people should not use a single seatbelt.
Make sure there is nothing in the buckle interfering seatbelt’s latch plate. This may prevent the seatbelt from fastening securely.
Children under the age of 13 should be properly restrained in the rear seats.
Never allow children to ride in the front passenger seat, unless the airbag is deactivated. If a child is seated in the front passenger seat, move the seat as far back as possible and properly restrain them in the seat.
Carrying an infant or child on an occupant’s lap is dangerous.
Seatbelt Care
Seatbelts are a critical component in the vehicle occupant protection system and must be cared for to ensure that they function effectively in the event of accident, or other serious incident. If seatbelts are damaged in any way, please stop using the affected seat and visit your nearest VinFast Service Center for inspection as soon as possible.
Recommendations for seatbelt care:
Make sure that the seatbelt is not damaged or clamped by sharp objects.
Always keep the seatbelt retractor clean and free of dust.
Avoid contamination of seatbelt webbing by polishes, oils, chemicals, and particularly battery acid.
Fully extend the seatbelts and clean them with a mild, nonabrasive soap and lukewarm water. After washing thoroughly, sponge the solution out of the belts. Do not allow the belts to retract until fully dry.
Regularly inspect the seatbelt webbing for contamination, damage or fraying.
Do not bleach or re-dye the webbing because this may weaken the seatbelt.
Do not insert any items such as coins, clips, etc. into the seatbelt buckles, if foreign materials get into a seatbelt buckle, the seatbelt may not work properly.
CAUTION
Do not use bleach, strong detergents or an abrasive brush or cloth to clean the seatbelt as it may damage and weaken the fabric.
Do not use steamers, brushes with hard bristles, hard sponges etc to clean the seats as this can damage the seats.
WARNING
Never disassemble, modify or tamper with the seatbelts and the seatbelt system.

## Child Restraint Systems

Child Restraint System Overview (CRS)
Children and infants must be fitted with an appropriate child restraint system when in the vehicle.
The child seat must be securely attached to the rear seat of the vehicle. Follow the child seat supplier’s instructions.
WARNING
It is not recommended for children to travel in the front passenger seat. It is safest for children to travel in the rear seats with belts fastened.
Children 12 years and under should travel in a Child Restraint System properly fixed in the rear seats, in accordance with the age, weight and size of the child. Failure to do this can increase the risk of injury in an accident.
Selecting the appropriate child restraint system
The following Child Restraint System is recommended for your vehicle:
Child aged from 0 to 4 years, height up to 105 cm (0 - 18 kg) - Britax Romer Dualfix - Size Rearwards facing with support leg is recommended.
NOTE
You should select a child seat which meets the safety standard ECE R-44 or ECE R-129 (i-Size).
ECE R-44
Approved ECE R-44 child seats are available in two types:
One type can be fitted to the vehicle using the three-point safety belt
The second type has ISOFIX arms and can be installed at the left and right rear seating locations
ECE R-44 Weight Groups:
Group 0
Infants from 0 - 10 kg (birth to 9 months)
Group 0+
Infants from 0 - 13 kg (birth to 18 months)
Group I
Infants / toddlers until 9 - 18 kg (9 months to 4 years)
Group II
Children from 15 - 25 kg (4 to 7 years)
Group III
Children from 22 - 36 kg (6 to 12 years)
ECE R-129
Approved ECE R-129 child seats are only available with ISOFIX arms and can only be installed in the rear left and right seating locations. ECE R-129 child seats are based on height of the child.
ECE R-129 Height Groups:
i-Size Baby
Newborn to 85 cm (0 to around 18 months) - rearward facing carrier or baby seat
i-Size Baby & Toddler
Newborn to 105 cm (0 to 4 years) - rear facing baby seat until your child is at least 76 cm, then forward facing
i-Size Toddler & Child
61 cm to 105 cm (15 months to 12 years) - rear facing baby seat until child is at least 76 cm, then forward facing
i-Size Child
100 cm to 135 cm (4 years to 12 years) - forward facing seat
CAUTION
Please follow installation instructions carefully when fitting a Child Restraint System. If in doubt, contact a professional to complete the installation process.
Always comply with local or national regulations. In some countries, the use of child restraint systems is forbidden on certain seats
Children should travel in a rearward facing Child Restraint System in the vehicle as long as possible. This makes sure that the child’s backbone, which is still very weak, is under less strain in the event of an accident.
Never carry a child whilst traveling in the vehicle. The child will become too heavy to hold in the event of a collision.
Ensure that the Child Restraint System to be installed is compatible with the vehicle type.
Ensure that the mounting locations of the Child Restraint System within the vehicle is correct.
Allow children to enter and exit the vehicle only on the side facing away from the traffic.
CAUTION
When the child restraint system is not in use, secure the seat with a seatbelt or remove it from the vehicle.
NOTE
Do not stick anything in or around the Child Restraint System.
A child restraint system which has been subjected to stress in an accident must be replaced.
Please ensure that infants and children are seated in the rear seats using child restraints.
Please select a Child Restraint System suitable for the child’s age until the child can use seatbelts.
Please follow instructions provided with the Child Restraint System carefully.
Child Restraint Installation Locations
There are generally two types of Child Restraint Systems (CRS) based on how they are secured in the vehicle, these are:
Belted - secured using the vehicles seatbelts
ISOFIX - secured to the anchor points built into the vehicle
Some CRS can be installed using either method mentioned above. Please refer to instructions provided by the manufacturer of the CRS to determine the correct method to use.
Belted CRS can be installed in any passenger seat in the vehicle, whereas ISOFIX system can only be installed in the rear outboard seats.
NOTE
ISOFIX is an international standard that specifies the attachment points for child safety seats in passenger cars.
WARNING
Laws and regulations that govern how children should be restrained in a vehicle are subject to change. Therefore, it is the driver’s responsibility to be familiar and comply with regulations of the region where the vehicle is driven.
Front Passenger Seat- CRS Installation
Refer to the following label
WARNING
It is not recommended for children to travel in the front passenger seat. This can lead to serious injury or death in the event of an accident. It is safest for children to travel in the rear seats with belts fastened.
Rear Outboard Passenger Seat- CRS Installation
Children can occupy the rear outboard passenger seats in either a forward facing or rear facing position, using:
Belted CRS
ISOFIX CRS
Children can occupy the rear center passenger seat with a belted CRS
Belted CRS
To install CRS using seatbelts:
Make sure to always read and follow safety seat manufacturers instructions. Some general steps are provided below:
Route and buckle the seatbelt around the child safety seat in accordance with the child safety seat manufacturer’s instructions.
Allow the seatbelt to retract and remove all slack in the seatbelt by allowing it to retract itself while pushing the child safety seat into the vehicle’s seat.
Attach seat tethers provided at the back of seats if required.
Ensure that the shoulder belt is routed through the belt guide at the top of the rear seat backrest. Shoulder belts are only to be released from belt guides when the rear seat is folded down.
Make sure that the seatbelt is free from kinks or twists.
WARNING
Make sure that there is no slack in the seatbelt when using belted installation.
The CRS seat must rest tightly against the vehicle seat.
If the seatbelt is not routed in its guide during belted installation, it would not be able to provide sufficient protection in an accident, which could result in serious injury.
ISOFIX CRS
The vehicle is fitted with ISOFIX anchors in the rear outboard seat cushions. These allow the attachment of a compatible CRS instead of using the seatbelt. The ISOFIX metal arms attached to the CRS lock onto the U-shaped steel bar, which are located on the back of the seat cushion just below the symbol  .
To install CRS using ISOFIX:
Extend the CRS latches onto the anchor bars until they click into place. Carefully read and follow the instructions provided by the child safety seat manufacturer.
Always test the safety seat before seating a child. This can be done by pulling CRS away from the seat and moving it from side to side. It is critical that both latches on the CRS are fully locked in position.
NOTE
The rear seat is the safest location for a child to travel.
Rear Center Passenger Seat- CRS Installation
Children can occupy the rear center passenger seat in rear middle support belted forward facing or rearward facing CRS, using belted CRS.
NOTE
The rear center seat does not have ISOFIX anchor points
Support Leg (if equipped)
If the Child Restraint System is equipped with a support leg (attaching CRS to ISOFIX system), ensure that it is fully extended and secured to the floor of the vehicle. Support legs can only be used in the rear outboard passenger seat locations. Follow installation instructions as described by the CRS manufacturer.
WARNING
When using a child restraint with a support leg, be sure that it rests firmly on the floor.
Top Tether Straps and Anchor Points
Installation of Top Tether Anchors:
The Top Tether anchors are located at the back of the rear seats of the vehicle.
For Dual Strap Tethers - Route the tether straps provided with the CRS on either side of the headrest and attach to the tether anchor.
For Single Strap Tethers - Route through the headrest gap and attach to the tether anchor.
NOTE
The rear outboard headrests of the vehicle are adjustable and the rear center headrest is fixed, please make sure the top tether strap is routed correctly.
Never route the top tether strap over the top of the headrests.
WARNING
Please follow the instructions provided by the CRS manufacturer to ensure the child is seated safely and securely.
Make sure that the tether strap does not have any slack or twist in it.
Always inspect the seatbelts, CRS belts and tether straps for damage and wear.
Never attach any equipment, harnesses or other items to the anchor points in the vehicle.
Do not use a Forward Facing CRS until the child is over 9 kg (20 lbs).
The tether straps must be attached to only tether anchor point and nowhere else.
Before installing a child restraint system, be sure to confirm that the seat back is securely locked into place. Otherwise, in an accident, serious injury or death could result.
Do not allow babies or infants to held on a passengers lap. All children mused be securely restrained in the vehicle.
Do not use seatbelt extenders on a seatbelt that is used to secure a CRS.
Never attach two CRS to one anchor point.
Use only belted safety seats in the center back seat seating position.
Never leave children unattended inside the vehicle.

## Airbags

Airbags
The vehicle is equipped with airbags that work in conjunction with seatbelts to protect the driver and passengers in the event of an accident. In the event of a significant vehicle impact one or multiple airbags may inflate to help reduce injuries to the driver and front passenger head and chest area.
The Airbag system is designed to provide maximum protection with the seatbelts fastened, therefore it is recommended to wear seatbelts at all times. The airbag system consists of sensors around the vehicle that measure both the direction and severity of a crash.
Airbag Locations
Driver and Passenger Airbags
Front Seat Side Airbags (Left & Right sides)
Curtain Airbags
How the Front Airbags are triggered:
The driver and front passenger airbags are designed to deploy during significant frontal collisions, minimizing risk of injury to the head and shoulder region.
NOTE
The front airbags will not deploy during rear or side collision, in such cases only the front seatbelt Pre-tensioners will be activated. The airbags are part of the supplementary restraint system and are designed to accompany the seatbelt in protecting the occupants from injury in the upper body. The airbags inflate rapidly so maintaining a proper seating position is of utmost importance to prevent incurring injury from this deployment. The airbag system consist of driver and passenger airbags modules, occupant detection system, sensors and an Airbag Control Unit.
WARNING
It is important for everyone in the vehicle to wear a seatbelt correctly, even when an airbag system is provided. Failing to wear a seatbelt can cause serious injury or death.
Do not sit unnecessarily close to any airbag deployment zone. The driver should maintain recommended distance from the steering wheel while still maintaining control of the vehicle.
Do not place objects or mount equipment on or near the airbag deployment zones. Failure to follow these instructions may increase the risk of personal injury in the event of an accident.
Use of unauthorized accessory seat covers could prevent airbag deployment and increase risk of injury in an accident.
Do not lean your head on the door. You could risk getting injured from the deployment of airbags from the side of the seatback.
When the airbags are triggered, fine dust particles or steam may be released. This does not mean that there is a fire in the vehicle. The fine dust may cause irritation to the skin and eye and cause breathing difficulties. To help reduce breathing difficulties, get down of the vehicle or open the windows or doors for fresh air. If you come in contact with the dust, wash your hands and face with a mild soap and water. Do not let the dust get into your eyes or into open wounds. If dust has entered your eyes, rinse them with water.
All passengers need to sit upright, centered in the cushion with the seatbelt fastened, and legs extended with feet on the floor. Failure to do this can result in serious injury if an airbag deploys during an accident.
Types of Airbags
Front Airbags
The vehicle is fitted with two Front Airbags, which consist of a driver and a passenger airbag. The driver’s airbag is located in the center of the steering wheel, and the passenger airbag is located in the dashboard area. Both airbag deployment locations have AIRBAG identifiers.
How the Front Airbags are triggered:
The driver and front passenger airbags are designed to deploy during significant frontal collisions, minimizing risk of injury to the head and shoulder region.
NOTE
The front airbags will not deploy during rear or side collision, in such cases only the front seatbelt Pre-tensioners will be activated.
The airbags are part of the supplementary restraint system and are designed to accompany the seatbelt in protecting the occupants from injury in the upper body. The airbags inflate rapidly so maintaining a proper seating position is of utmost importance to prevent incurring injury from this deployment.
The airbag system consist of driver and passenger airbags modules, occupant detection system, sensors and an Airbag Control Unit.
WARNING
Avoid leaning against the door or console while vehicle is in motion.
Make sure that nothing is in between the passenger and airbag deployment area, it can cause interference for airbag at the time of deployment.
Side Airbags
The vehicle is fitted with two side airbags, for both the front passengers. They are located on the outermost side of each front seat backrest. These airbags protect the occupants in case of a side impact or rollovers. The side airbags are marked with the AIRBAG label which is located on the side of the seat closest to the door.
NOTE
Pre-tensioner in the seatbelt get activated in an event of an accident, which further helps in restricting the motion of the occupant.
How the Side Airbags are triggered:
In the event of a side impact, the airbag sensors will trigger the side airbags. Due to the small distance between the passenger and the door, the side airbags will inflate very quickly in the event of a side impact. Side airbags are designed to reduce the risks of injuries to the upper body and head area of passengers.
NOTE
The vehicle has no rollover sensors, however in the event of a vehicle rollover the side airbags may deploy.
Pre-tensioner in the seatbelt get activated in an event of an accident, which further helps in restricting the motion of the occupant.
No airbags will be deployed in case of rear end collision. Both the front seatbelt Pre-tensioners will be activated.
Safety belts and the airbag system will provide protection only when occupants are in the proper seating position.
WARNING
Avoid keeping objects over the airbag or near the side door glass, this can cause serious injury or death when the airbags deploy.
Do not bang, kick or hammer the side of the vehicle when the vehicle is on, this may cause side airbag to deploy.
Curtain Airbags
The vehicle is equipped with two curtain airbags, which are mounted in the roof line on each side. Curtain airbags are marked as AIRBAG label which is located on the door pillar. They are designed to protect passengers in case of a severe side impact or if the vehicle rolls over.
How the Curtain Airbags are triggered:
When the airbag sensors detects the severe side collision or if the vehicle rolls over then the Curtain airbags will be triggered on both sides, impacted and non-impacted.
The curtain airbags helps to reduce the risk of injury to the head and neck area of the passenger.
WARNING
Avoid attached any object which cover the deployment zone of the curtain airbags.
Passengers must fasten the seatbelt and sit in a correct position, close to the back of the seat in order to obtain the best protection from the curtain airbag.
Never try to open or repair any components of the side curtain airbag system. If necessary, have the system serviced by a professional workshop.
CAUTION
If a severe side impact collision occurs, the curtain airbags will deploy even if there are no passengers seated.
After an Airbag deployment, the HV battery of the vehicle will be disconnected.
Operation & Occupant Detection
Airbag Warning Indicator
The Airbag Warning Indicator   is located on the center lower area of the IPC (Instrument Panel Cluster). It will illuminate in the event that there is an airbag system malfunction. See   Instrument Panel Cluster > Overview .
The Airbag Warning Indicator will illuminate for a few seconds during vehicle startup, then turn off. During a malfunction with the vehicle airbag system, the warning indicator light will be turned On or will constantly flash. It is recommended that you immediately visit a VinFast Service Center when this occurs.
Following situations can cause the Airbag Warning Indicator to illuminate:
Faulty Airbag sensor(s)
Airbag battery out of power
Defective Airbag coil
Airbag module malfunction
Faulty seatbelt latch
Occupant Detection Status
Passenger Airbag Suppression for CRS (Child Restraint System)
The vehicle is fitted with an Occupant Detection Sensor in the front passenger seat which can automatically detect and distinguishes between an adult or child occupying the seat, and will adjust the airbag status accordingly. If an adult occupies the seat, the passenger airbag will be On. If a child occupies the seat, the passenger airbag will be Off.
Please follow the recommendations to ensure correct occupant detection:
Sit in an upright position, with shoulders and back against the seat back and legs extended in front with feet on the floor. See   Seats > Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions .
Fasten seatbelt.
Remain seated correctly at all times.
The following situations can cause inaccurate Occupant Detection Status:
Placing large or heavy items on the front passenger seat.
Placing powered electrical devices which may interfere with the front passenger seat sensor.
Incorrectly fitting a CRS system.
Items located under the seat or wedged between the cushion and seatback.
Any unauthorized accessories fitted to the seat.
NOTE
See > Child Restraint Systems Overview for child seats safety.
It is recommended that all children 12 years and under must be seated in the rear seats of the vehicle.
WARNING
If the front passenger seat airbag status is not turning On or Off as expected when the seat is occupied, do not allow any passengers to occupy the seat until it has been inspected and rectified by an authorized VinFast Service Center.
Do not modify the front seat in any way, to ensure accuracy of the occupant detection system.
If it is legal in your region to have a child seated on the front passenger seat, ensure the passenger airbag is not active. Otherwise it can cause serious injury or death in the event of an accident.
It is the driver’s responsibility to ensure that the passenger airbag status is Off, if a child is occupying the front seat.
The status of the passenger front airbag displays at the center lower area of the IPC. There will be no indicator when the front passenger Airbag is On, however   will be displayed if the front passenger airbag is deactivated. See   Instrument Panel Cluster > Overview .
Warning label:
A warning label is located on the inner side of the passenger side sun visor regarding the Passenger Airbag and the dangers involved when used in conjunction with a child restraint in the front passenger seat during an airbag deployment.
WARNING
Never use a rearward facing child restraint on a seat protected by an active Airbag in front of it, death or serious injury to the child can occur.
When children are seated in the rear outboard seats of a vehicle equipped with side and curtain airbags, be sure to install the child restraint system as far away from the door side as possible, and securely lock the child restraint system in position. Inflation of side and curtain airbags could cause serious injury or death to an infant or child.
Airbag operation
Safe Seating position
See   Seats > Correct & Incorrect Seating Positions .
Airbag inflation conditions:
Vehicle is equipped with accelerometers and sensors. In the event of vehicle collision these devices calculate the impact on the vehicle and at a certain impact the airbags get triggered/deployed. Other factors also related to density and stiffness of the impacted vehicle or objects are also considered.
Airbags inflate when following situations are occurring:
Front airbags are inflating in a frontal collision by detecting sufficient impact on the intensity of the front collision or impact sensors.
Side Airbags activate depending on the severity of the impact caused by the collision, the side and certain airbags are inflated if the impact is detected by the side collision sensor.
Airbags can be deployed if bumps or objects on unimproved roads or sidewalks affect the vehicle chassis.
NOTE
When vehicle suddenly hits high curbs or deep pits, Airbags can be deployed.
Airbag non-inflation conditions:
Airbags may not be triggered/deployed in some certain situations, even after vehicle gets damaged or if it senses an impact.
Airbags are not inflating when following situations are occurring:
In certain low-speed collisions the airbags may not be deployed because in such collisions they may not provide benefits beyond the protection of the seatbelt.
When a collision with a static pole or small objects like a tree occurs at low speed the airbags will not inflate, where the point of impact is concentrated in one area and the full power of the result is not given to the sensors.
When the collision occurs at a certain angle or minor impacts to the side there will be no additional benefit if airbags are deployed.
Front airbags are not inflated in rear collisions, because occupants are moved backward by the force of the impact
Front airbags will not inflate in rollover accidents as front airbag deployment will not provide additional passenger protection.

# Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS)


## Cruise Control

Cruise Control
Cruise Control (CC) is a system that automatically adjusts vehicle speed. CC will maintain a selected speed.
CC Controls Overview:
CC On/Off button  .
Speed increase / Resume speed button  .
Speed decrease / Set speed button  .
Cancel button  .
WARNING
Always make sure that a speed is maintained within the prescribed speed limit. Observe all traffic and road conditions. Driving at unsafe speeds increases the risk of an accident.
Do not use Cruise Control where a constant road speed cannot be maintained, such as heavy or varying traffic, winding, slippery or unpaved roads.
The Cruise Control does not apply the brakes. When traveling downhill, the vehicle’s speed may exceed the set cruising speed and driver intervention may be required.
To Turn Cruise Control ON:
Press and hold CC button  on the steering wheel.
Press the SET- button  to activate. Set speed will be shown.
NOTE
For safety reasons, Cruise Control System is only available when vehicle speed is 30 km/h or more.
To adjust Cruise Control speed:
To increase the set speed, press speed increase button  .
To decrease the set speed, press speed decrease button  .
The Cruise Control system will be canceled via:
Press and hold the CAN button on the steering wheel controls.
Press the brake pedal.
Turning off Cruise Control.
Resuming a set speed:
When the Cruise Control is canceled by pressing the CAN button or by pressing the brake pedal, the previously set speed can be restored. Once the vehicle speed reaches 30 km/h or more, pressing RES+ button  will gradually accelerate the vehicle to the previous set speed. If cruise control or the vehicle is switched off, the set speed will be deleted from memory.
CAUTION
The driver must supervise the system under all conditions and must take control of the vehicle at any time.
WARNING
The RES+ button should only be pressed when the driver is aware of the set speed. Pressing RES+ accidentally may lead to a loss of control of the vehicle resulting in personal injury or vehicle damage.

## Collision Warning Systems

Blind Spot Detection
Blind Spot Detection (BSD) is a driver assistance system that monitors the adjacent lanes next to the vehicle and warns if an object is present in the driver’s blind spot. The system may warn for objects the driver might not see This feature does not actively intervene or provide steering input. Using radar, steering angle and vehicle speed, BSD detects objects in the blind spot and calculates the distance of these objects from the vehicle. When in Drive mode, if a moving object is detected, the blind spot detection LED lamp   will illuminate on the corresponding side mirror. In addition, if the driver attempts to change lanes, an audible chime will sound.
To activate system:
On the touchscreen, tap App Library.
Select Driver Assistance Tools > Blind Spot.
In the Blind Spot Detection section, tap the On/Off switch to activate the feature. When activated, the switch will turn on and display blue.
In the Audible Chime section, tap Enable Alert Sound to turn the warning sound on or off. When activated, the switch will turn on and display blue.
NOTE
This function only operates when the vehicle is in gear N or D, and the speed is between 10 km/h and 120 km/h.
To deactivate system:
On the touchscreen, tap App Library.
Select Driver Assistance Tools > Blind Spot.
In the Blind Spot Detction section, tap the On/Off switch again to deactivate the feature. When turned off, the switch will change to the “off” state (without blue).
In the Audible Chime section, tap the Alert Sound On/Off button to disable the sound. When turned off, the button will switch to the “off” state (without blue).
Conditions under which the BSD may not function correctly​
BSD may unnecessarily detect a vehicle and/or objects under the following conditions:
Short distance between your vehicle and guardrails, walls, signs, parked vehicles and similar stationary objects.
System Malfunction Warnings
If BSD detects a malfunction with the system or associated ADAS system it will trigger an alert message to alert the driver. If a malfunction alert is displayed some or all of the system functionality may be impacted.
CAUTION
The detecting range may vary depending on the speed of the vehicle. However, the system may not provide adequate warning for very fast moving vehicles approaching from the rear.
The BSD sensors may become impaired by mud, rain, frost or ice. Performance may be subsequently affected and not alert the driver to vehicles in the lane on either side. Always keep sensors clean.
Warning timing may vary depending on the speed of the vehicle that is approaching.
WARNING
It is the driver who bears full responsibility for the blind spot detection maneuver.
Driver should always turn their head and check for cars before changing lanes, do not rely completely on Blind Spot Detection system.
Blind Spot Detection is a driver assistance feature. Before making any lane change, always use the rear view mirrors to help avoid accidents.
The system may not provide alerts under all driving conditions including when driving around sharp curves.
The system does not alert drivers to vehicles outside of the detection zones.
Do not rely completely on the system, always pay attention when driving.
Rear Cross Traffic Alert (RCTA)
Rear Cross Traffic Alert (RCTA) (if available) is a driver assistance system that alerts the driver of an imminent collision from objects approaching from the rear of the vehicle whilst reversing. This feature does not actively intervene via steering input or braking. The system may provide both audible and visual alerts.
RCTA uses radar sensors in the rear corners of the vehicle to detect moving objects that are approaching. The system may alert regarding the following:
Cars
Motorcycle
Bicycles
Pedestrians
CAUTION
The RCTA function will not generate warnings for stationary objects or objects that are not road users, e.g. light poles, garbage containers etc. RCTA Operation.
RCTA Operation
RCTA Visual and Audible Alerts
If the RCTA system detects an approaching object, it will notify the driver by displaying an alert icon on the reverse camera display and the Blind Spot Detection (BSD) inline Rectangle icon will flash in the Vehicle Side Mirror closest to the oncoming object.
If target objects are coming from multiple directions, multiple alert icons will be shown accordingly. The RCTA system generates 2 levels of warning according to the Time to Collision (TTC):
Activation conditions:
The system will be active when R gear is engaged and the vehicle speed is between 0 km/h and 10 km/h.
Vehicle speed
Alarm mode
The speed of this vehicle is 0 km/h
The mirror LED is static and a red icon in MHU will be active
The speed of this vehicle is above 0 km/h
The system indicator flashes and the buzzer rings for a long time
System Faults: In the event of a RCTA fault, a warning will be displayed on the touchscreen.
CAUTION
The sensors may become impaired by mud, rain, frost or ice and fail to detect approaching objects. Always make sure all sensors and cameras in the vehicle are clean before driving
WARNING
Do not rely completely on the system, always check the surrounding area before reversing the vehicle. RCTA timing may vary depending on the speed of approaching vehicle. Use the side mirrors and complete a head check to watch for vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles or pedestrians that may be approaching the vehicle from the rear. The system may not react if objects are approaching very quickly. The rear cross-traffic assist will not provide alerts if your vehicle is parallel parked or if your vehicle is pulled too far into the parking space so that it is hidden by adjacent vehicles. RCTA may not work if the driver applies the brake pedal to avoid collision. Do not reverse the vehicle and rely solely on RCTA to alert of approaching objects. Always check surroundings before reversing. The RCTA chime may not be heard if the surrounding area is noisy. The RCTA system may not provide alerts about every type of approaching objects. Always monitor the traffic as well as the vehicle’s surroundings with direct eye contact.
Door Opening Warning
Door Opening Warning (DOW) is a driver assistance system that warns an occupant of an approaching road user prior to opening a vehicle door. The system assists occupants to safely exit a vehicle and prevent serious accidents associated with vehicle doors opening in front of oncoming traffic.
DOW uses radars in the rear bumpers to detect oncoming traffic. If an oncoming vehicle is detected occupants will be alerted via LEDs on the side mirrors and the locking of applicable doors. When a door is locked, the door will be opened only if the occupant pulls the handle three times. For all other occupants their doors will not be locked. Additionally, ambient lighting will be used as a warning mechanism in combination with directional audible warnings for all people inside the vehicle.
The DOW Function detects and predicts the path of the following target objects:
Cars
Motorcycles
Bicycles
Shopping carts
Door Opening Warning Operation
When DOW is active the following will occur:
An icon   will be shown on the corresponding door side view mirror.
If the impacted door is opened, this icon will start flashing and a chime is heard.
To Turn DOW Off
Use touchscreen setting menu in MHU Settings for DOW Mode setting configurations.
Press the button “on/off”.
NOTE
The DOW Function will not generate warnings for stationary target objects and elements.
Door Locking is the default setting for DOW system.
The DOW Function will warn the driver when it is not operative.
CAUTION
The rear sensors may become impaired by mud, rain, frost or ice and fail to detect approaching objects. Always make sure all the sensors are clean before starting driving.
WARNING
Opening a door when an object is approaching may cause damage or personal injury. Always use the side mirrors and complete a head check to watch for vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles or pedestrians that may be approaching the vehicle in the path of the door.
Do not rely completely on the system, always check the surroundings of your vehicle before opening the doors.

## Park Assist

Rear Parking Assist
The Rear Parking Assist system assists the driver when parking by alerting them to surrounding objects. The system provides visual and audible alerts to inform and warn the driver. The system uses ultrasonic sensors located on the rear bumper to identify obstacles.
Park Assist operation
The parking assist system will automatically be activated when reverse gear is engaged and vehicle speed is less than 10 km/h.
On the infotainment display, colored lines will appear in the direction in which an obstacle is detected. Depending on the distance measured between the vehicle and the obstacle, the color of the lines will alter.
To Activate/Deactivate Parking Assist:
The feature is activated:
When the speed of vehicle is less than 10 km/h and the gear shift is selected as “R”﻿.
The feature is deactivated:
When the speed of vehicle is over 10 km/h.
When the distance traveled by the vehicle is more than 50 meters since the gear is shifted out of parking mode.
Park Assist Faults
Park Assist will display a warning message on the infotainment screen as well as on the vehicle alerts page if it detects a fault.
If a Parking Assist sensor has faulted due to dirt or blockage please clean the impacted sensor.
NOTE
Make sure all parking assist sensors are clean as a build-up of snow, ice, dirt or mud may affect the operation of the sensors.
CAUTION
Do not push, scratch or strike a sensor as this may cause damage.
Do not spray the sensor or its surrounding area directly with high pressure water.
Do not apply paint on the sensors, it will affect thier performance.
WARNING
The vehicle driver bears full responsibility for controlling the vehicle including parking maneuvers, do not rely completely on the system.
System will not detect potholes, trenches or drainages which are below the ground level.
Under certain conditions, ultrasonic waves may be absorbed or deflected by soft surfaces, angled objects, clothing, or external noise sources, causing the system to miss or inaccurately detect obstacles. Extra caution is required with low-height obstacles that may not be reliably detected and could damage the lower bumper.
Always check the surrounding area when reversing and using the rear parking assist system.
Some objects may not be detected by the sensors.
Reversing Camera (if equipped)
The Rear View Camera is used to display the area behind the vehicle and to assist with reversing or parking maneuvers. The system uses a camera mounted above the rear license plate and projects an image on the Infotainment display.
How to Activate the Reverse Camera
The Rear View Camera is activated when reverse gear (R) is selected and the vehicle’s speed is less than 15 km/h (9.3 mph). The parking assist is also activated and provides guidelines and audio feedback to assist when parking. For more info   see > Park Assist
The dynamic guidelines show the driving path relative to the steering wheel position
Color
Distance
Red
30 - 50 cm
Amber
50 - 100cm
Green
100 - 300cm
How to Deactivate the Reverse Camera
The Rear View Camera gets automatically deactivated if the driver disengages reverse gear (R). The driver can also deactivate the camera view manually by pressing (X)   on display if the reverse gear (R) is not engaged.
WARNING
Keep the rear view camera lenses clear, unclear lenses will fail to capture the clear rear view and driver will not be able to fully monitor the rear view at the time of parking and it will lead to rear collision.
Never fully depend on the cameras at the time of parking, the cameras may not detect objects or barriers that can potentially cause damage or injury
Always check the surrounding of your vehicle before parking, do not rely completely on the reversing camera.
The camera(s) may not display children, pedestrians, cyclists, traffic, animals, or any other objects outside of the cameras field of view.
The distance of images displayed may be different from actual. Always make sure to manually check your surrounding for safety.
Do not obscure the rear view camera by installing objects, such as a bumper sticker or a bumper guard, near the rear view camera.

# Driving


## Starting & Shutting Down Vehicle

Starting the Vehicle
Switch Overview
The vehicle is fitted with technology that enables key less start/stop operation. Key fob must be present inside the vehicle in order to turn the vehicle ON.
Start/Stop (Power) Button:
Button Position
LED Color
Action
OFF
Blue
To turn the vehicle Off, press the Start/Stop button. If you press the Start/Stop button with the gear in N (Neutral) position, the vehicle will transition to ACC.
ACC
Red
Press the Start/Stop button without having your foot on the brake pedal.
ON
Green
While the vehicle is in ACC position, press the Start/Stop button again without having your foot on the brake pedal.
START
White
To Start the vehicle, depress the brake pedal and press the Start/Stop button.
To start driving the vehicle:
Place your foot on the brake pedal (left pedal).
Press the Start/Stop button.
Select either Drive (D) or Reverse (R).
Press the accelerator pedal to start driving.
NOTE
Make sure the key is inside the vehicle while starting/stopping the vehicle.
Metal objects and devices with electronic components, such as mobile phones, can interfere with the Start/Stop system.
WARNING
Do not shift between Drive (D) and Reverse (R) when the vehicle is in motion.
Do not accelerate while engaging a gear.
Do not depress the accelerator pedal and brake pedal at the same time.
Ensure that all occupants fasten their seatbelt before starting the vehicle.
Low Key fob battery
If the vehicle instrument prompts that the vehicle has not detected the key, this may be due to:
The vehicle is in a strong signal interference area.
The power of the Key fob is insufficient.
The vehicle is equipped with transmitting and receiving devices such as GPS… which differ from the original factory specifications.
The vehicle can be started according to the following steps:
Place the key in the cup holder on the center console;
Step down the brake pedal;
Press the start button.
CAUTION
If the vehicle still fails to start, please contact the VinFast Service Center.

## Drive Systems

Transmission Gear Selector
The vehicle Transmission Gear selector is used to engage different vehicle gear positions, which include Reverse (R), Neutral (N) and Drive (D).
The Transmission Gear Selector is located on the center console.
Reverse (R)
Neutral (N)
Drive (D)
To select a gear position:
Depress the brake pedal and ensure the vehicle is stationary or has come to a complete stop.
Turn the knob to the desired gear.
The selected gear will illuminate once selected and be shown on the IPC.
WARNING
Do not speed up while engaging a gear.
Do not press down the accelerator pedal and brake pedal at the same time.
Turn off the power when leaving the vehicle, apply the parking brake.
Never leave the vehicle unattended while the power is on.
NOTE
If you turn the vehicle off in Reverse (R) or Drive (D) the gear will automatically shift to Neutral(N).
Neutral
If traffic and road conditions permit Neutral (N) may be selected while the vehicle is rolling. Neutral may also be used to allow the vehicle to be maneuvered in a workshop environment or to be moved onto a tow vehicle.
CAUTION
Shifting to Neutral will disable regenerative braking resulting in greater than normal brake pressure being required.
Shifting to neutral should only be done while a driver is present to apply the vehicle brakes where necessary.
Drive Mode
The vehicle has two driving modes which can change the vehicle’s throttle response and power delivery. Drive Modes can be changed via the touchscreen.
Available Driving modes include:
ECO
SPORT
To select a drive mode:
Tap Drive Mode   on the touchscreen to choose the desired drive mode.
ECO MODE
Slowest throttle response and low energy consumption
SPORT MODE
Quick throttle response and high energy consumption
NOTE
ECO mode is the first default mode. The subsequent mode defaults to the last setting state. The maximum torque and maximum speed are the same in both modes, only changing the vehicles throttle response and energy consumption.
Creep mode
The creep mode is useful for driving at lower speeds in stop-and-go traffic or in parking lots. With this function active, the vehicle will move slowly in the selected direction of travel without the need to apply the accelerator pedal.
To activate/deactivate creep mode:
Tap Drive Mode     in the Infotainment screen.
Toggle creep mode ON/OFF.
WARNING
Do not rely on creep mode to prevent your vehicle from rolling down a hill. Keep your foot firmly on the brake pedal if you wish to remain stationary or on the accelerator pedal if you wish to ascend a hill. Failure to do so may result in accident causing serious injury or death.
Stopping Mode
The mechanical hand brake is a parking brake of mechanical structure, which is used to hold or stop the vehicle when parking.
When the mechanical hand brake is pulled up,   icon will be displayed on IPC.
NOTE
Before leaving the vehicle, make sure that the mechanical hand brake has been pulled up to make the vehicle in the parking state.
Before starting the vehicle, make sure that the mechanical hand brake has been release to make the vehicle running.
Manual Park Brake
To engage the parking brake, pull the parking brake handle all the way up.
To release the parking brake, pull the handle up slightly, press the button, and then lower the handle.
NOTE
The parking brake needs to be completely released before driving. If the parking brake is not completely released during driving, it will cause the brake components to overheat, which will affect the braking performance and aggravate the brake wear.
WARNING
It is the driver who bears full responsibility for the parking maneuver.
If the parking brake handle is pulled up in cold weather, it is possible to freeze the brake device and it is difficult to release the parking brake.
An unsecured vehicle may move or roll away, which may lead to an accident.
CAUTION
When parking on a steep incline or in slippery conditions, the Park Gear and Park Brake may not be sufficient to prevent the vehicle from moving. Additional action may be required to secure the vehicle.
If parking on a decline use a tire chock in front of the front wheel, if parking on an incline, put the tire chock behind the rear wheel.
It is recommended to turn the front wheels towards the curb when parking.

## Steering Wheel

Steering Wheel Adjustment
The steering wheel can be adjusted Up and Down to the desired driving position.
To release the steering wheel to make adjustments, pull down the lever located underneath the steering wheel column.
To lock the steering wheel into the desired position, push the lever all the way up to its locked position before driving.
WARNING
Only adjust the steering wheel while the vehicle is stationary.
Adjusting the steering wheel position while the vehicle is moving may lead to a loss of control of the vehicle.
Steering Wheel Switches
A number of vehicle controls and Infotainment features may be operated using the Steering Wheel Controls without using the Infotainment screen.
Short press
Menu Left
Short press
Menu Up/Increase
Short press
Menu Right
Press and hold
Cruise Control ON/OFF
Short press
Cruise Set Speed + / Resume
Short press
Cruise Control Cancel
Short press
Cruise Set Speed - / Set
Short press - No Active Call
Open Phone App
Short press - In Recents List
Call Last Number
Short press - In Coming Call
Answer Call
Short press - Active Call
End Call
Short press - 2nd Incoming Call
Answer 2nd Call, 1st On Hold
Short press - 2 Active Calls
End Primary Call
Short press - No Device Connected
Open Device Connect Page
Short press - 2nd Incoming Call
Reject 2nd Call
Short press
Siri / Android Assistant (if available)
Short press
Open Mode
Short press
Next Track / Station
Up
Volume Increase
Down
Volume Decrease
Short press
Mute
Short press
Menu Down / Decrease
Short press
Previous Track / Station
Short press
OK
WARNING
Do not rely completely on driving aids as they are not a substitute for appropriate levels of driver attention and judgment. The driver is always responsible to ensure the vehicle is driven in a safe manner.
Read all the relevant sections in the Owner’s Manual and become familiar with all steering wheel controls prior to driving to avoid distraction.

## Mirrors

Side Mirrors
Adjustment
The side mirrors are adjusted with the buttons located on the driver side door.
Select the relevant mirror by moving the switch to the left (L) or right (R). Then press the control to adjust the view in the mirror.
When the switch is in the middle position, no mirror is selected.
NOTE
In the case of an electrical malfunction, the mirrors can be adjusted by gently pressing on the edges of the mirror glass.
WARNING
Before driving always check that the mirrors are adjusted correctly for your driving position
Rear View Mirror
The rear view mirror is designed to allow the driver to have a clear view of the area behind the vehicle through the vehicle’s rear window.
Mirror Adjustment
The rear view mirror position   can be adjusted manually by hand. Adjust the angle of the rear view mirror when the vehicle is stationary and seated in the correct driving position.
Rear View Mirror dimming
To push or pull the button below the mirror case   to switch on or off the Rear View Mirror dimming function manually.
NOTE
Before driving your vehicle, always check the Rear View Mirror position.
CAUTION
Do not spray glass cleaner directly on the mirror. Use a soft towel dampened with water.
WARNING
Do not adjust the position of the mirror when driving. Doing so may lead to mishandling of the vehicle and cause an accident, resulting in death or serious injury.
Make sure your line of sight is not obstructed. Do not place objects in the rear seat, cargo area, or behind the rear headrestraints which could interfere with your vision through the rear window.
To prevent serious injury during an accident or deployment of the airbag, do not modify the rear view mirror and do not install a wide mirror.
Sun Visor
A sun visor is provided for the driver and front passenger. The sun visors can be positioned to block sun glare coming through both the front and side windows by releasing.
Sun Visor Adjustment
To adjust a Sun Visor:
The sun visor can be adjusted in several orientations including:
Rotate the sun visor downwards   to a desired angle.
Detach from the mounting clip and swing outboard  .
Once detached extend the sun visor by sliding it forward or rearward as needed  .
WARNING
Driving with the sun visor in the down position will reduce your view of the road.
Sun visors should always be folded away if they are not being used.
When using the sun visor, do not lean too far forward in front of the airbag. The front airbag could cause serious injury if triggered.
CAUTION
Do not leave plastic cards in the card holder for long periods of time, as direct sunlight can cause distortion.

## Exterior Lighting

Exterior Lighting Controls
The vehicle exterior lighting can be controlled via the left multi switch stalk.
Exterior lighting control by the multi switch (Left Hand stalk):
OFF
Lights off
Position Lights
Low beam
AUTO
Auto Lights
WARNING
Do not use headlights when there is an oncoming vehicle because it will dazzle other drivers, increasing the risk of an accident. When using the automatic high beam feature, the vehicle may not detect oncoming vehicles in all conditions. So always check for oncoming vehicles and dim your headlights when necessary. Automatic headlights are only used to assist the driver. It is the driver’s responsibility to control the headlights.
High Beam
The vehicle exterior lighting can be controlled via the left multi switch stalk.
High beam control by the multi switch (Left Hand stalk):
Pull
High beam flash
Push
High beam on
Up (when Vehicle off)
Right Parking Light
Down (when Vehicle off)
Left Parking Light
To manually activate / deactivate high beam:
To activate the high beam manually, push the left multifunction switch handle forward. The indicator light will appear on the display and the high beam will be switched on. To return to the low beam, pull the multifunction switch handle towards you. To flash the high beam, pull the switch towards you.
WARNING
Always make sure to have a clear vision of the road and environment. If needed, use manual operation to turn ON the headlights.
Do not use high beam when there is oncoming traffic as lights will create glare for other drivers, which increases the risk of an accident. Always check for oncoming vehicles and dim the high beam lights when required. It is the driver’s responsibility to control the headlights.
Turn Signals
The vehicles turn signals are controlled using the multi switch stalk on left-side of the steering wheel.
To Operate the Turn Signal:
Lightly push the multi switch stalk up   or down   until resistance is felt, then release. The turn signal will flash 3 times.
When activated, the left or right turn indicator     will flash on the display.
To cancel the Turn signal:
The turn signal will be canceled when:
The steering wheel is returned to it’s central position.
The stalk is pushed up or down while indicators are active.
NOTE
The Daytime Running Lights (DRL) will turn off while the indicator light is flashing.
Hazard Warning Flashers
The hazard warning flashers warn others drivers to take caution. It should be used in the event of an accident, if pulled over on the side of the road or when the vehicle is stopped on the motorway. The hazard button is located in the center console.
To activate/deactivate the Hazard Warning Flashers
Press the Hazard light switch
NOTE
The red light on the button will flash when the hazard warning flashers are activated. The hazard warning flashers can operate even if the vehicle is Off. Hazard warning flashers are automatically activated in the event of an Emergency Braking situation or airbag deployment. The individual turn signals do not work when the hazard warning lights are on.
Tail Lights
High brake lamp
Decorative strip
Tail lamp
License plate lamp
Reflector & Rear lamp
As shown Tail lamp (LH)
Position lamp
Turn Signal Lamp
Brake/Stop Lamp
As shown Reflector & Rear Lamp (RH)
Reverse lamp
Rear Reflector
CAUTION
Avoid contact with liquids and also do not touch with bare hands. Residual oil may cause the bulb to overheat and burst when switched on. Replace immediately if light is dimmed, cracked or damaged and carefully dispose of.
Stop/Brake Lights
The brake lights turn ON when the brake pedal is depressed to alert other road users that the vehicle is slowing down.
These include:
Center High Mount Stop Light (CHMSL)
Tail Lamps
Center High Mount Stop Light (CHMSL)
The Center High Mount Stops Light (CHMSL) turns on with the brake lights.
Turn Lights
Turn Lights are used to signal that the driver will change lanes or take a turn. They
turn on when the driver initiates a turn using left stalk.
Reverse Light
The reversing light turns on when the ignition is on and reverse gear is selected
License Plate Light
The license plate light allows the license plate to be visible in dark conditions. The
license plate lights are activated when either the headlights or parking lights are on.
Rear Reflectors
Rear reflectors are used to reflect the light from other vehicles behind so that they
can know the presence of the vehicle.
NOTE
Do not use dry cloth or sponges to clean headlights or tail lights, as they could scratch or damage the lens surface.
In cool or damp weather, the inside of the headlights, turn signals, and tail lights can fog over due to the a temperature difference between the inside and outside. They will clear shortly after switching them on. This does not affect the service life of the lights.
Follow Me Home
When exiting the vehicle, the exterior lights will stay illuminated for a set amount of time before turning off when the Follow Me Home feature is enabled.
To Activate / Deactivate Follow me home:
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Tap Settings   > Convenience.
Tap Follow Me Home.
Choose Follow Me Home switch to open/close function.
Choose Follow Me Home option 30s / 60s / 90s / 120s.

## Interior Lighting

Front Dome Lamp
The Front Dome lamp is located on the ceiling at the front of the vehicle and can be set to illuminate in the following situations:
Front Reading Lights (with SOS botton)
The Front Dome lamp has two operating modes:
AUTO - reading light will illuminate when any door is open.
MANUAL
The front reading light can also be activated separately when a driver or passenger requires illuminate their own area of the cabin.
To activate/deactivate a front reading light:
Press the SPOT button once to turn on the light.
Press SPOT button again to turn off.
Front Reading Lights (without SOS button)
To activate/deactivate a front dome light:
When the switch slides to the left “I”, the light is auto on when doors are opened.
When the switch to the middle position “O”, the light is always OFF.
When the switch slides to the right “II”, the light is always ON.
WARNING
Do not use the interior lights when driving in the dark. The interior lights may obscure your view and may cause an accident.
Battery Power Protection
The battery power protection function can control DCDC to output appropriate power current to charge the battery, thus extending the service life of the battery.

## Wipers and Washers

Front Wipers
The Front wipers are used to remove water, rain, ice, snow or debris from the vehicle’s front windshield. The wipers operate across the front window to give the driver better visibility.
Wipers Controls
The Front Wiper stalk is located behind the steering wheel on the right-hand side. To use the front wiper, turn the vehicle  ON  and then move the stalk  Up  or  Down  to one of the operating positions.
Up – MIST: pushing the wiper stalk upward, will initiate the windscreen wiper to wipe once
Point Of Origin – OFF: Wiper System is turned  OFF
Down 1 – INT: Intermittent mode
Down 2 – LO: Low speed, Wiper On Speed 1
Down 3 – HI: High speed, Wiper On Speed 2
Swivel wheel- sensitivity adjustment of intermittent mode.
Pull –To spray windshield washer fluid, pull the lever towards you.  The windshield wipers will automatically turn  ON  at low speed.
NOTE
The Wiper/Washer activation function will work only when the vehicle is in ON condition.
Check the washer fluid level regularly.
Check it often when the weather is bad.
Fill the washer fluid reservoir till full.
To prevent windshield icing in cold weather, turn on the defroster to heat the windshield before and during washer use.
CAUTION
When washing the vehicle, set the wiper switch in the OFF position to stop the auto wiper operation. The wiper may operate and get damaged if the switch is set in the AUTO mode.
To prevent possible damage to the washer pump, do not operate the washer when the fluid reservoir is empty.
To prevent possible damage to the wipers or windshield, do not operate the wipers when the windshield is dry.
To prevent damage to the wiper arms and other components, do not attempt to move the wipers manually.
To prevent possible damage to the wipers and washer system, use anti-freezing washer fluids in the winter season or cold weather.
To help prevent damage to the windshield wiper and washer system components, don’t continue to hold in the lever when there is no washer fluid being sprayed otherwise the washer motor can get damaged.
Clear ice or packed snow from the wiper blades before using the wipers to avoid the damage.
Do not use radiator antifreeze in the windshield washer reservoir. It can severely impact on visibility when sprayed on the windshield, and might damage the vehicle’s paint.
Rear Wiper
The Rear Wiper is used to remove water, rain, ice, snow or debris from the vehicle’s rear window for better driver visibility.
Rear Wiper Controls
The Rear Wiper is operated by twisting the rear wiper switch which is present at the end of the right stalk.
OFF
Rear wiper is Turned  OFF
ON
Rear wiper is Turned  ON
Rear Windshield Wash
Twist away from driver until stop   Rear windscreen wash will activate then return to Wiper ON mode once released.
Twist towards driver until stop   Rear wiper will perform a single wash cycle
CAUTION
Before using rear wiper, clear the ice or snow from the rear window otherwise it will prevent wiper blade from moving. It may also cause damage to the wiper motor.
Do not use radiator antifreeze in the windshield washer reservoir. It can severely impact visibility when sprayed on the rear window and might damage the vehicle’s paint.

## Braking and Stopping

Traction Control System (TCS)
The traction control system (TCS) is an active safety feature that reduces wheel slip of the driven wheels during vehicle acceleration. TCS monitors the speed of each individual wheel and if slip is detected will apply brake pressure to that slipping wheel to maximize traction. It is recommended that TCS be enabled at all times for maximum safety.
The TCS light   will temporarily flash on the touchscreen when the TCS system is actively applying brakes. In case of a malfunction, the TCS light will remain on. If there is a malfunction with TCS, please contact a VinFast Service Center to have the vehicle inspected.
Traction Control System is ON by default.
WARNING
Traction Control System does not compensate or prevent collisions caused by dangerous driving or turning sharply at high speeds.
Anti-lock Braking System (ABS)
The Anti-Lock Braking System prevents the wheels from locking and helps maintain steering during hard braking events. This enables the vehicle to reduce braking distance and enhances drive-ability in varied road surface conditions. The speed of each wheel is monitored and braking pressure on each wheel is adjusted so that the wheels continue to rotate and don’t lock and slide.
NOTE
A pulsating sensation can be felt through the brake pedal while ABS is operating. This characteristic is part of the normal operation of the system.
CAUTION
Maintaining strong and steady pressure on the brake pedal during an emergency braking situation is of utmost importance. Pumping or removing the foot from the brake pedal can lead to increased braking distance. Drive at reduced speed when the terrain consist of snow, ice or covered in dirt or gravel as system performance may be impacted.
WARNING
If the ABS warning light   is on and it remains on, you may have a problem with the ABS system. Do not drive your vehicle, contact VinFast Service Center to have the vehicle inspected.
ABS does not compensate for dangerous driving.
Electronic Brake Distribution (EBD)
Electronic Brake Distribution (EBD) optimizes the braking performance of the vehicle under different operating conditions. It electronically adjusts the brake bias from the front to rear wheels or rear to front wheels of the vehicle based on the traction available between the tires and road surface.
Electronic Stability Control (ESC)
The Electronic Stability Control System (ESC) helps to stabilize the vehicle during cornering and braking events if traction between the road surface and tires is reduced. ESC monitors individual wheel speed and driver steering angle and applies brake pressure to individual wheels to prevent vehicle understeer and oversteer, and aids the driver to keep the vehicle on it’s intended path.
The ESC light  will temporarily flash on the touchscreen when the ESC system is actively applying brakes. In case of a malfunction the ESC light will remain on in which case contact VinFast Service Center to have the vehicle inspected.
NOTE
ESC by default will be ON every time you turn the vehicle ON.
CAUTION
Maintain strong and steady pressure on the brake pedal during an emergency braking situation. Do not remove your foot from the brake pedal or pump the brake pedal, as doing so can increase the braking distance.
WARNING
Electronic Stability Control does not compensate or prevent collisions caused by dangerous driving or turning sharply at high speeds.
Hill Start Assist (HSA)
Hill Start Assist (HSA) temporarily prevents the vehicle from unintended roll back while starting on a hill/ incline or when the vehicle has stopped on a hill/ incline. The system remains activated for a period of 3 seconds after the driver releases the brake pedal. HSA works by temporarily holding brake pressure after a driver releases the brake pedal.
NOTE
HSA remains active only for a period of 3 seconds after releasing the brake pedal. Always be careful of the surroundings and be ready to press the brake pedal.
WARNING
Do not rely on HSA. It does not replace human input and intuition in any way or form. Always pay attention to your surroundings and drive safely.
A heavily loaded vehicle may roll backwards slightly.
Brake Assist System (BAS)
The Brake Assist System (BAS) recognizes when a driver has applied a rapid brake application and applies additional brake pressure to assist the driver in minimizing vehicle stopping distance. BAS works to assist the vehicles braking system engage ABS as fast as possible and will disengage upon release of the brake pedal.
WARNING
The Brake Assist System not compensate or prevent collisions caused by dangerous driving.
Regenerative Braking (Regen mode)
The vehicle is equipped with a regenerative braking system. The system can convert kinetic energy usually released as heat during a braking event into electrical energy. The recovered energy can be used to replenish the batteries, leading to increased vehicle range.
The system gets activated as soon as the accelerator pedal is released. It will gradually slow the vehicle down and start recharging the batteries.
Regen will be deactivated if the Battery State Of Charge (SOC) is above 95%.
NOTE
The amount of Regenerative Braking may be reduced when the vehicle is fully charged or when the battery is very cold.
Driving Style
Driving Style can be accessed using Drive Mode settings from touchscreen. It provides the option to select the level of regenerative energy generated and used to recharge the vehicle’s battery.
The vehicle provides two levels of regenerative braking to choose from i.e.  Low  and  High . To turn off Regenerative Braking select Off.
CAUTION
Regenerative Braking should not be considered as a primary form of vehicle charging. It is a supplementary feature. Please follow proper charging instructions to charge your vehicle.

## Economy & Environment

Economical Driving
Economical driving is a way of driving which can help to improve road safety and prevent wear on your vehicle.
Please refer to the following recommendations for economical driving:
Avoid harsh braking: Regenerative Braking System is the key factor for economical driving. Regenerative Braking System will convert some of the vehicles kinetic energy into electrical energy to recharge the batteries. Regenerative braking is maximized by reducing the use of friction brakes and the best way to do so is to avoid harsh accelerating and breaking.
Controls your speed: High speed increases the energy consumption and discharges the battery faster. Driving the vehicle in efficient speed will maximize the battery lifetime.
Reconsider use of heating and air conditioning: Reduce the use of the vehicle’s Heating, Lighting, Climate Control, Audio and Infotainment systems whenever it is convenient and safe to do so, as they consume power from the battery.
Tire pressure: Make sure that tire pressure is at the optimal level to reduce unnecessary rolling resistance that decreases economical driving efficiency.
Battery management: Keep the vehicle in a well maintained condition will help to slow degradation of your battery. The better your battery health, the more energy it will hold, and the longer range you can get on a single charge. Minimize the use of DC Fast Chargers, particularly Super-Fast Chargers, to maximize the Battery life. Also, plug the vehicle into a charger whenever the vehicle is not in use. Do not allow the battery charge to drop to a very low level.
Remove unnecessary weight: Energy consumption can be reduced by removing unnecessary weight such as unused child seats, empty drink crates, roof carriers etc.
Maintain distance: Maintain an adequate distance to other vehicles to avoid emergency braking.
Wheel alignment: Have the wheel alignment checked per the maintenance schedule. Incorrect wheel alignment can lead to increased tire wear and power consumption.
Windows: It is recommended to drive with all the windows closed if possible.
Driving Statistics (if available)
Driving Statistics displays the history of the battery consumption, distance and power use of the vehicle over a chosen period. This data is also available to view via the VinFast Companion App.
To open driving statistics:
Tap the EV  on the touchscreen.
Tap on Statistics  .
Driving Statistics graph   will be shown on the screen.
Time Ranges
Driver can see the statistics by selecting time ranges or by customizing the time range.
To select time ranges:
Tap on drop down icon  .
Select a time range in the drop down menu  .
Statistics will be shown for selected time range.
To select the view:
Driver can select from the following different views for statistics:
Speed
Mileage
Consumption
To change the view, select the desired view from   toggle button.

## Flood Precautions

Flood Precautions
It is not recommended to drive in flooded roads or areas.
If it is mandatory to drive through a flooded area, to prevent the vehicle from being damaged, it is necessary to pay attention to the following precautions:
Check water depth before driving through water. The water level should not exceed the vehicle’s ground clearance.
2. Drive at a low speed (less than 10 km/h). Otherwise, waves may form in front of the vehicle, damage the motor controller and other components, and make the vehicle unable to drive.
Do not park or reverse in water under any conditions.
WARNING
Apply the brakes several times to restore braking function after driving through water.
The presence of water, mud, or silt in the braking system can reduce braking efficiency and increase stopping distances. Drive carefully, maintain a safe following distance, and avoid sudden braking.
Driving through deep water can damage your electrical motor. This damage is not covered by the warranty.
Other systems like transmission, driving and electrical may also be seriously damaged upon submersion. This damage is not covered by the warranty.
Effects of waterlogging on high-voltage parts
If your vehicle is submerged in water or if you drive through water that reaches or exceeds the doorsill, water may enter the high-voltage system, this can pose serious safety risks. Servicing flood-damaged vehicles by unauthorized workshop cannot guarantee, please contact VinFast for support and bring vehicle immediately to VinFast authorized dealers for checking and repair if vehicle is flooded.
Effects of waterlogging on the A/C Condenser
Water, mud, leaves, or debris accumulated after driving through flooded areas may affect the A/C condenser, and the cooling performance of the system. After driving through flooded areas, inspect and clean the front grille area. If any abnormal condition is detected, have the vehicle inspected by an authorized VinFast Service Workshop.

# Displays, Connections and Climate


## Infotainment Touch Screen

Infotainment Touch Screen Overview
The vehicle touchscreen allows control of many vehicle features and functions that traditionally would be provided by physical buttons and switches.
Key vehicle information displayed by the touchscreen includes:
Vehicle battery state of charge
Key functions controlled by the touchscreen include:
Media, Phone
Climate control
Touchscreen Layout
Status Bar
Key information related to connectivity and user profiles.
Widgets
Easier display of key information.
Climate Controls
Provides access to and current status of climate control functions
Status Bar
The status bar is located in the top portion of the touchscreen homepage.
The Status bar displays information related to the items and may provide access to the following:
Active Profile
Tap to access Profile Settings or Profile drop down.
VinFast Logo
Voice Assistant will be inside the status line.
Wifi
This icon is displayed when WIFI is connected.
Chime Mode status
Indicates that the Chime mode is muted or reduced.
Connection type
Indicates the type of connection.
Connected device name
Show connected devices
Time
Display the current time.
Widgets
Tap on widgets to view more interactions.
Media
Drive mode
EV Battery App
Touchscreen Use
Many features of the system can be controlled using the touchscreen, including infotainment, climate control, and vehicle settings. The touchscreen allows the driver to control and set many vehicle settings for a comfortable and optimal driving experience.
It is recommended that vehicle owners familiarize themselves with all touchscreen-related content presented in this Owner’s Manual. This not only ensures they will experience the best performance and features the system has to offer but also lowers the risk of driver distraction associated with touchscreen use.
WARNING
When driving, avoid using touchscreen controls or reading lengthy text. Driver distraction can lead to accidents, potentially causing serious injury or death.
CAUTION
Do not use abrasive materials or cleaning solutions on the Infotainment touchscreen. To remove marks and fingerprints use a high quality clean microfiber cloth.
Touch display operation
Selecting a function:
Tap on any function to select it.
Example: To open an app, tap on it.
Zooming In/Out
To zoom into maps, images, or web pages, put your finger and thumb on the touchscreen and spread them apart.
To zoom out, put your finger and thumb on the touchscreen and pinch them together.
Browsing lists and Panning
Browsing Lists:
Drag from bottom to top, to scroll down the browsing lists.
Drag from top to bottom, to scroll up the browsing lists.
Panning:
Panning function allows you to move a view to another location without changing its magnification by dragging on the screen
You can view another location on a map or a zoomed in image without changing its magnification by using the panning function.
Camp Mode (if available)
Camp Mode is a convenient feature that allows users to easily switch the vehicle from READY state to Power On state without restarting. When this mode is activated, the air conditioning system continues to operate, and users can lock the vehicle and leave with peace of mind.
To activate Camp Mode
Conditions to activate Camp Mode:
The vehicle is in Neutral gear (N).
The vehicle is in READY state.
High-voltage battery capacity is above 25% (depending on the software version).
The parking brake has been engaged.
To activate:
Swipe down the screen to open the Quick Control panel.
Tap the Camp button   on the screen. When Camp Mode is on, the indicator light on the power button will turn green.
NOTE
When the vehicle is in Camp Mode, gear shifting is not possible.
When Camp Mode is activated, it takes a few seconds for the system to start.
To deactivate Camp Mode
Press the brake pedal and the power button to switch the vehicle back to READY state.
Or Turn of the vehicle
Or when the high-voltage battery capacity drops below 15% (depending on the software version). A notification will appear on the screen and in the VinFast app
Notifications
Notifications may be shown from an application in the form of a popup on the touchscreen. Tapping on a notification will launch the associated app. If untouched the notification will automatically dismiss.
WARNING
Reading detailed information on the touchscreen while driving may lead to distraction causing a vehicle collision, injury or death.
User Profiles
User can choose from profiles available in the infotainment system.
Swipe down and touch Profile photo to change the profile.
The profiles can be managed through the C-App.

## Infotainment

Overview and Key Features
The infotainment system is controlled by using the touchscreen, controls on the steering wheel buttons. It is used for playing various types of media source.
Radio - The Radio app allows the listening of AM and FM radio frequency band.   See > Infotainment > Radio.
Bluetooth Audio - When connected to a valid Bluetooth device you can listen to stored or streamed audio via Bluetooth Media.   See > Infotainment > Bluetooth Audio.
USB Media - When connected to a valid USB device you can listen to available audio and video via USB Media.   See > Infotainment > USB Media.
Media widget:
When you touch on a media widget the associated media source will open in full screen.
Widget overview:
Heading (song name, channel etc.)
Sub heading (Artist name, Band name)
Album name (if any)
Media Controls (Previous, Play/Pause, Next)
Media widget list:
Bluetooth Media
USB Media
Radio
Radio
The Radio app allows the listening of AM and FM radio frequency bands, and is available as part of the Music App.
Operating the Radio
Radio Overview
Search box
Favorite toggle
Seek/Scan station
List button
Launching the Radio App
Tap App Library   > Media   > Radio.
WARNING
Do not adjust the touchscreen controls or allow the system to distract the driver while the vehicle is moving. Driver distraction can lead to accidents, potentially causing serious injury or death.
Sustained exposure to high sound levels greater than 85 decibels, can cause hearing damage.
Station List
The radio station list will be automatically populated with the strongest nearby stations. The radio frequency and/or radio station name will be shown (if available). Existing favorite stations will be shown with a heart icon  .
NOTE
Station list will automatically refresh after a period of time.
Radio Favorites
To view the received list:
To view all available Stations, tap on List  .
You can see all the received stations on the Received interface.
To save a favorite station:
From the station list tap the heart icon next to the station you wish to add as a favorite.
The heart icon will illuminate.
The station will now appear in the favorites list.
To view the favorites list:
To view the list of Favorite Stations, tap on Favorites.
To remove a favorite:
From the received list, tap the heart icon.
From the favorites list, tap the heart icon.
To rearrange Favorite Stations:
Choose the favorite to be rearrange and swipe left
Tap reorder.
Drag the station to the desired position.
Release the station, the favorite will drop and snap to a highlighted position.
NOTE
The Favorites list will be sorted in sequential order with the most recently added station at the top.
Some radio channels may become out of range, these will remain stored under Favorites but not be present in the Station list.
USB Media
When connected to a valid USB device you can listen to available audio and video via USB Media. USB Media is available as part of the Music App.
Launching USB Media
To launch USB Media:
USB Media can be accessed by:
Tap Media on the touchscreen.
Tap App Library   > Media   > USB Media.
Supported USB Media file types:
Music: WAV, MP3, OGG, AMR, FLAC.
Video: MP4, FLV, MKV, 3GP, WEBM.
Image: JPEG, PNG, BMP
USB Media Player
Media Player Overview:
The USB Media player provides detail of the current media playing and playback controls.
Song Title
Album Title/Artist name
Song progress bar
Media Controls- Shuffle, Previous, Play/Pause, Next, Repeat
Tap on list   to find more options for USB Media. Some functions may be available, such as Artist, Video and Folder.
Bluetooth Audio
When connected to a valid Bluetooth device you can listen to stored or streamed audio via Bluetooth Media. Bluetooth Media is available as part of the Music App.
Bluetooth Audio Overview
Song Title
Album Title/Artist Name
Progress bar
Media controls (Previous, Play/Pause, Next)
Playing Media
To launch Bluetooth Media:
Bluetooth Media can be accessed by any of the following:
Tap Media on the touchscreen.
Tap App Library   > Media   > Bluetooth Media.
To change track:
Use controls   to change the track.
You can change the track via connected Bluetooth device
Use steering wheel buttons to change the track.
WARNING
Do not operate a mobile device while driving the vehicle. Doing so may lead to an accident.
NOTE
If Bluetooth is selected and no volume is present, check the volume setting on both your mobile device and the infotainment system.

## Instrument Panel Cluster

Car Control
Instrument panel cluster
The instrument is mainly composed of speedometer, battery state of charge, gear information and some indicator symbols, which is mainly used to display vehicle status and warning information.
Driving page display functions, including running status indicator, speed display, gear display, range display, subtotal mileage display, total mileage display, SOC power display, charging display, telltale display, etc.
Indicator light function display, including high beam, left turn, right turn, door open state prompt, seatbelt not fastened reminder display, airbag failure display, etc.
Audible alarms include: seatbelt not fastened sound alarm, door not closed sound alarm, light not turned off sound alarm, etc.
No.
Diagram
Description
1
Airbag warning – Red
2
Seatbelt warning – Red
3
ABS Malfunction – Yellow
4
High Beam Indicator – Blue
5
Turn signal (Left) indicator – Green
6
Turn signal (Right) indicator – Green
7
DRL/Position indicator – Green
8
Brake malfunction – Red
9
HV Battery pack malfunction – Red
10
ITPMS warning – Yellow
11
HV Battery pack warning – Yellow
12
Charging light indicator – Green
13
Charging light indicator – Red
14
Transmission Failure – Red
15
ESC active – Yellow
16
ESC Off indicators – Yellow
17
Park brake – Red
18
Open door indicator – Red
19
MCU malfunction – Red
20
Limited Power indicator – Yellow
21
Tailgate indicator – Red
22
Insulation failure – Red
23
HSA Malfunction – Red
24
Electric Power Steering failure – Yellow
25
Immobilizer malfunction – Red
26
Service reminder warning/reset – Yellow
27
Battery Pack Temperature warning – Red
28
Battery Pack Temperature warning – Blue
29
Low-voltage 12V Battery malfunction – Yellow
30
Low-voltage 12V Battery malfunction – Red
Warning Lights and Indicators
Airbag warning
When the start switch is ON, the warning light will be on for a few seconds and then off. The warning light is lit in case of electrical failure.
Seatbelt warning
When the start switch is in ON, if the front seatbelt is not fastened, the light will remain on until the front seatbelt is fastened.
ABS malfunction
When the start switch is ON, the warning light will be on for a few seconds and then off. When the vehicle starts or runs, if the system fails, the ABS warning light will light up. Please contact VinFast auto service station for repair as soon as possible.
If the light turns on and off while driving, and does not turn on again, it can be regarded as normal function. When the ABS fault warning light is on (the brake system fault warning light is not on), the anti-lock braking system will lose its function, but it can still maintain the traditional braking function. But in emergency braking or braking on a slippery road, the wheel may be locked and skid.
High Beam indicator
When the high beam is turned on, the indicator lights up.
Turn Signal (Left) indicator
When the left turn signal is turned on, the left turn signal indicator and the left turn signal light flash at the same time.
Turn Signal (Right) indicator
When the right turn signal is turned on, the right turn signal indicator and the right turn signal light flash at the same time.
DRL/Position indicator
When the position indicator is turned on, the indicator lights up.
Brake malfunction
When the start switch is ON or the vehicle is started, the warning light will be on for a few seconds and then off. If the warning light continues on, try restarting the vehicle once or twice. If the warning do not turn off, contact VinFast as soon as possible for repair.
If the warning light turn on while you are driving, get off the road and stop carefully. The brake pedal may be harder to step on or closer to the floor. It may take longer for the brake system to stop the vehicle.
When the warning light is on, the brake fluid level may be too low or there is a brake system fault. Check your braking system immediately!
HV Battery Pack malfunction
This indicator lights up when there is a HV battery falt.
iTPMS warning
When the start switch is ON, the warning light will be on for a few seconds and then off. If the tire pressure warning light continues on, one or more tires may be under-inflated. Please check the tire and its inflation pressure.
If the warning light comes on while driving, reduce speed and avoid severe steering and braking. Please check the tire and its inflation pressure.
If there is a fault with the system, please contact VinFast Service Center for repair, as soon as possible.
HV Battery Pack warning
When the warning light shows yellow, the HV battery is low. Please charge the HV battery immediately to avoid affecting your travel plan.
When the HV battery needs to be replaced, this light will be on. Continuing to use the HV battery may cause unexpected problems. Please contact VinFast Service Center for repair, as soon as possible.
HV Battery Pack warning
When the warning light shows red, the HV battery is extremely low or there may be a fault on the system. Please charge the HV battery immediately to avoid affecting your travel plan.
Continuing to use the HV battery may cause unexpected problems. Please contact VinFast Service Center for repair, as soon as possible.
Charging Light indicator
When charging normally, the light turns on green.
Charging Light indicator
When charging is abnormal, the light turns on red.
Transmission Failure warning
When the start switch is ON, the warning light will be on for a few seconds and then off.
In case of transmission failure, this light will be lit. At the same time, the instrument panel will not display a gear.
When the indicator light is on while driving, it indicates that the transmission control system is faulty, and it should be repaired at the VinFast Service Center immediately.
ESC indicator
When the start switch is ON, the warning light will be on for a few seconds and then off. If the warning indicator is blinking, the ESC is active.
If the ESC system is faulty and the warning light continues on, contact VinFast Service Center for maintenance, as soon as possible.
ESC Off indicator
When ESC is off, the indicator lights up.
Park Brake indicator
When the parking brake lever is pulled up, this light will turn on. When the parking brake lever is released, the light goes out.
Open Door indicator
When any door is opened, the position of the corresponding open door is displayed. When all the doors are closed properly, the light goes out.
MCU malfunction
The electric drive system is faulty. When safe, get off the road and stop carefully, park the vehicle outside and turn it off. Please contact VinFast Service Center for maintenance as soon as possible.
Limited Power indicator
When the Limited Power indicator is on, the response performance of the vehicle will be reduced when the accelerator pedal is pressed.
When the light is on, a warning may appear on the vehicle information display. Please contact VinFast Service Center as soon as possible.
Tailgate indicator
When the tailgate is open, this light will turn on. This light will turn off when the tailgate is closed properly.
Insulation Failure warning
When there is a vehicle insulation failure, this light turn on. Contact VinFast Service Center for maintenance, as soon as possible.
HSA malfunction
This light will turn on when the Hill Start Assist system fails. Please contact VinFast Service Center for repair, as soon as possible.
Electric Power Steering failure
When the start switch is ON, the warning light will be on for a few seconds and then off. If the warning light continues on, the Electric Power Steering system is faulty. Please contact VinFast Service Center for repair, as soon as possible.
Immobilizer malfunction
When the start switch is ON, the warning light will be on for a few seconds and then off. If the vehicle Anti-Theft system is faulty, the light will stay on.
Service Reminder warning/reset
Maintenance cycle indicator, please come to VF service center as soon as possible to maintain your car.
Battery Pack Temperature warning
When the temperature of the vehicle HV battery is too high, the warning light will be on. In order to avoid damage, please immediately get off the road and stop carefully if it is safe. Leave the vehicle when it is safe.
Battery Pack Temperature warning
When the temperature of the vehicle HV battery is too low, the warning light will be on. Please immediately get off the road and stop carefully if it is safe.
Low-voltage 12V Battery malfunction
When the 12V battery voltage is low, the warning light turns on.
Low-voltage 12V Battery malfunction
When the 12V battery charging system is faulty and the battery cannot be charged, the warning indicator turns on. Please contact VinFast Service Center, as soon as possible.
Trip Information
IPC: Board computer
The 3 trips is in 3 menu pages in dynamic area: Current trip, Trip A and Trip B. User can use   and   to navigate through different menus.
Each menu of trips contains 3 info: mileage subtotal, average energy consumption and average speed. User can hold   to reset this trip.
The display range of mileage subtotal is 0.0 km-9999 km. Display accuracy is 0.1km.
The average battery consumption is shown as “XX.X kWh/100 km”.
The display range of average speed is 3 km/h - 180 km/h
Overspeed
Overspeed alarm is a speed alarm system installed in the vehicle speedometer or on the trip computer. When the driving speed of the car reaches or exceeds the set speed, the car will sound a warning to remind the driver that the current driving speed has exceeded the set speed, and the accelerator should be released to reduce the speed to an appropriate range.
To Activate / Deactivate Overspeed:
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Tap Settings   > Convenience  .
Tap Overspeed  .
Choose Overspeed switch   to open/close function.
Click or slide the slider left and right to adjust the overspeed alarm threshold  .
You can check the over speed alarm threshold  .
Tire Pressure (iTPMS)
The purpose of iTPMS is to monitor the air pressure of each tire in real time, and determine whether the tire is leaking through wheel radius analysis/frequency offset monitoring. When a leak occurs, it will send a warning message to the IPC, and the IPC displays the tire pressure alarm.
The warning light   on the IPC will illuminate together with a message when there is an abnormal air pressure at the tires.
At the same time, the IPC will indicate which tire has abnormal air pressure.
Reset
To reset iTPMS system, press and hold OK button on the steering wheel control.
The system will use the current tire pressure as the standard tire pressure value for self-learning.
Reset must meet all the following preconditions:
The vehicle is ON.
The vehicle is stationary.
The ESC system is normal.
All input signals related to iTPMS are normal.
NOTE
After successful reset, all current alarm status will be cleared.
Self-learning:
After successful reset, the system will enter the state of self-learning.
Prerequisites for self-learning:
The vehicle needs to meet the speed of 40-100 km/h.
The self-learning process last approximately 20 minutes.
If the conditions are not met during the self-learning process, the system will remember the current self-learning time (it will not be re-timed) and stop self-learning. When the conditions are met again, the system will continue to start self-learning until approximately 20 minutes are reached, and the self-learning is completed.
If self-learning fails, the system will return to the state before the reset.
Vehicle Alerts
Telltales
Please check the telltales position below.
Please note that some telltales may share the same position with different icons or colors. It’s just a basic layout.
Warnings ON/START
Multi-function steering key (MFS) controls for navigating inside the dynamic area: MFS   /   controls for dynamic area, MFS   /   for notifications.
Tap OK to hide the notification.
Notifications will disappear if the issue is resolved.
Two Warning Notification Screen states - hide/unhide - are explained with given wireframes.
DOW Warning is placed at the bottom of the screen and has no timeout.
IPC warnings contains 2 lines. The first line is the title of the warning, and the second line briefly describe the necessary action, if any.
Warning Screens Low-Fid Wireframe
Warning Notification Dialog Screen
MFS   /   to go between warnings MFS   /   to go between dynamic area. Tap OK to hide all notifications. Once hidden, user will see a small icon with a notification number that will disappear if the issue is resolved.
Warning Notification Dialog Screen Example:
Warning Notification Icon Screen - Hiden
Warning notification icon with number indicator appears once user tap OK to hide notification. This icon stays On as long as there are unsolved warnings. Icon disappears after all issues are resolved. Indicator number shows how many warnings are active.
Warning Notification Dialog Screen
MFS   to unhide all warnings. Latest warning notification will be shown on top of the list.
MFS   /   to switch between warning notification dialogs.
Warning Screens Wireframe
When there is an oncoming car behind on the left, the red light will turn on in the upper left corner of the screen, and the “Watch for traffic” will be displayed in the center of the screen to alert the driver.
When there is an oncoming car behind on the right, the red light will turn on in the upper right corner of the screen, and the “Watch for traffic” will be displayed in the center of the screen to alert the driver.
When there are oncoming cars behind on the left and right sides, the red lights in right and left upper corners will turn on at the same time, and the “Watch for traffic” will be displayed in the center of the screen to alert the driver.
Charging interface display
When the charging cable is plugged in and the vehicle enters the charging state, IPC will display the above interface.
The information displayed is: range, current power and charging time. Normal charging will stop when it reaches 100% by default.
The user can set the target charging percentage and stop charging when the set value is reached. The set target power will be displayed on the power bar with a yellow line as shown in the figure above.
Seatbelt Status
This model is equipped with front seatbelt reminder:
When the power switch is in ON, if the driver or front passenger is not wearing the seatbelt, a warning light on the IPC will be lit. The light will remain on until the seatbelt is fastened.
When the vehicle speed exceeds approximately 20km/h and front seatbelts are not fastened, there will be a buzzer and a pop-up. At this time, the indicator light will keep flashing to remind people to fasten the seatbelt through sound and vision.
Manual Overspeed Warning
When the vehicle speed reaches the set value, IPC displays overspeed alarm information immediately.
When the overspeed alarm appears:
Press OK button to dismiss warning.
When the speed lowers and stays below the Set Limit, the warning will automatically dismiss.
If Set Limit is reached again, the warning is triggered again.
Settings for Manual Overspeed Warning will be on touch screen. User can interact and adjust the vehicle overspeed warnings on touch screen.

## Phone & Projection

Phone & Projection
Certain Phone app functions can be controlled via the steering wheel Phone button  .  Based on which Phone app screen is currently active the phone button may perform a different task summarized below:
Function
Phone Button
Recent calls
Contacts
Dial
Short/Long press
Incoming call
Short press to accept call
Long press to reject call
During an Active call /Single call
Short/Long press to end active call
2x Active calls
Short/Long press to end current call & switch to second call
During an Outgoing call
Short/Long press to end outgoing call
1x Active call + 1x Incoming call
Short press to accept incoming call and put 1st call on hold Long press to reject 2nd call
Phone App General Overview:
Contacts
Recent Calls
Dial
Messages
Contacts
Phone contacts can be viewed by tapping on the Contacts tab on the Phone app window. Contacts stored in the memory of a paired phone will be synced to the vehicle’s contacts list. The contact list is synced each time the phone is connected to the system.
To search for a contact:
Tap on the Search   to activate the search bar.
Enter contact name/number using the keyboard.
Tap on Confirm.
Tap on the desired contact to call.
Recent Calls
The Recent calls tab lets the user see past calls from their phone. The recent call list can be viewed by tapping on the Recent Calls tab at the Phone app window. Tapping on any entry in the Recent Calls list will initiate a call to that number.
Types of call icons
Incoming call
Missed call
Outgoing call
Rejected call
Dial
Using the Keypad:
Input the phone number manually using the keypad.
To call a number, enter the phone number using the keypad. If the number entered matches with a saved contact, it will show the contact details on the screen.
Messages
The messages tab shows the messages inbox. Contact image, number/contact name and date of the message are shown. If the message is unread, an indication on the left side is shown.
A compatible Bluetooth phone must be connected to use the phone app.
NOTE
Not all Bluetooth phones support all functions.
Incoming Call
During an incoming call, the caller ID will appear on the touchscreen. If the contact is saved in the user’s phone then the person’s name and number is also displayed.To answer an incoming call, tap on the green Accept button on the screen or short press the Phone button on the steering wheel. To decline a call, tap on the red Decline button on the screen or long press the Phone button on the steering wheel.
The following options are available during a call
Full Incoming Call Window
Incoming Call Banner
When a new incoming call is present an incoming call notification will appear on the touchscreen. The notification will contain the caller ID, accept and decline buttons. Taping on the notification will take the user to the incoming call window.
Active call / Single Call:
While a call is active the call duration and contact details will be shown.
Call Duration
Switch to handset device
End call
Expand Keypad
Mute microphone
NOTE
When the user exits the Active call window to use other Apps or go to the home screen, in that scenario the active call window minimizes and docks a card on top of the touchscreen.
Incoming Call over an Active Call:
While a single call is active, a second call can be answered by tapping on Accept   on the incoming call card or pressing the Phone button on the steering wheel controls. The first call will automatically be put on HOLD.
To decline a call, tap on the red Decline   button on the screen or long press the Phone button on the steering wheel.
Accepting a second call will put the active call on hold and switch to the new call. The call on hold will be displayed on the left side of the Active Call window. Tap on the button   to switch back to the call on hold. This will put the second call on hold and it will be displayed on the right side of the Active Call window.
USB Ports & Power Outlets
USB Ports
The vehicle is equipped with two USB ports:
One USB Type-A port is located on the console front.
One USB Type-A port is located on the console rear.
Front USB Port
This port can be used to transfer data (i.e. play music, connect Android Auto & CarPlay) and charge devices.
Rear USB Port
Rear USB port is for charging devices only. Always disconnect the USB cable after use.
CAUTION
Connecting multiple devices using a USB hub is not recommended, this can prevent connected devices from charging or from being recognized by the infotainment system.
Unplug all accessories when not in use to prevent an electrical short if the unconnected end contacts another power source or liquid.
WARNING
It is recommended to connect an input device only when the vehicle is stationary. Trying to connect an input device while driving may distract driver’s attention and can lead to an accident.
Power Outlet
The vehicle is equipped with a power outlet located in the console front. To access the low voltage outlet, remove the protective cap. The power outlet is suitable for accessories requiring up to 12V (120 W) Max.
CAUTION
Only use 12 volts electric accessories which consume less than 120 watts. Some electronic devices and accessories can cause electronic interference when plugged into a vehicle’s power outlet. These devices may cause excessive audio static and malfunctions in other electronic systems or devices used in the vehicle. Use devices equipped with batteries with reverse current protection. The current from the battery may flow into the vehicle’s electrical system and cause system malfunction.
WARNING
Close the power outlet cap when not in use.
Do not allow children to use or play with the power outlet.
Never use the power outlet for electric heaters while sleeping.
Never insert foreign objects into the power outlet.
Never use malfunctioning electrical appliances.
Never insert inappropriate or badly fitting plugs into the power outlet.
Never jump start a vehicle using the 12V power outlet.
The power socket and an accessory’s connector can become hot.
Android Auto
If available, Android Auto can be launched on the touchscreen when a compatible device is connected.
NOTE
Android Auto is provided by Google and is subject to Google’s terms and conditions. Data plan rates may apply. If the device has Android 9 or below, install Android Auto app on the device. With Android 10 and above Android Auto is built-in.
Connecting to Android Auto
Android Auto can be launched by connecting a compatible device either via USB cable or WiFi.
NOTE
Setup of Android auto can be done only when the vehicle is parked.
Apple CarPlay
If available, Apple CarPlay can be launched on the touchscreen when a compatible device is connected.
NOTE
Apple CarPlay is provided by Apple and is subject to Apple’s terms and conditions. Data plan rates may apply.
Connecting To CarPlay:
Apple CarPlay can be launched by connecting a compatible device either via Wi-Fi or Bluetooth.
NOTE
The setup of Apple CarPlay can be done only when the vehicle is parked.

## VinFast App*

Overview and Key Features
The VinFast App is a mobile application that provides various useful services for VinFast vehicles.
The information about the VinFast App’s features in this user guide is for reference only. The actual interface and functions may vary depending on the region, vehicle model, and release time.
Some of the highlights of the VinFast App may include:
Viewing battery charging status and vehicle condition.
Using remote control features such as the air conditioning system, door locks, etc.
Searching for charging station information, scheduling service appointments, or requesting roadside assistance.
Planning trips and sending them directly to the vehicle (if available).
Accessing the user manual.
CAUTION
The VinFast App requires either a WiFi or cellular connection. Data fees may apply.
Registration and Sign In
To use the VinFast App, you need to download the app and register an account.
To download the App:
Visit the Apple App Store (iOS) or Google Play Store (Android).
Search for and download the VinFast App.
To register:
Open the app and tap Sign Up on the login page.
Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions.
Enter a Username (email address) and create a password.
Check your inbox for a verification email and confirm your registration.
Set up Fingerprint / Face ID (optional).
To Sign In:
Tap the VinFast icon on your phone to open the app.
Enter your registered email and password.
Forgotten Password:
If you forget your password, you can reset it by:
Tapping Forgot Password at the bottom of the login page.
Entering your registered email address.
Tapping Reset Password.
Checking your email and following the instructions to create a new password.
Vehicle and User Management
Guest Homepage
Before owning a VinFast vehicle, you can use the app to explore detailed specifications and services. When you launch the app and register, the guest home page will appear.
Linking VinFast App with a vehicle
Vehicle Owner
When purchasing a VinFast vehicle, the dealer will assist you in creating a VinFast ID, which identifies you as the vehicle owner.
Use the email address registered with your VinFast ID when creating your account in the VinFast App for automatic linking to your vehicle.
If the vehicle information does not sync automatically in the app or if your vehicle is not linked to your account, please contact your VinFast dealer for support.
For Secondary Drivers
You can also add or remove secondary drivers to use the VinFast App.
Contact the vehicle owner and ask to be added as a driver.
The owner will use Role Management to add the additional driver’s ccount to their vehicle.
The additional driver should provide the same email address they used to register the VinFast App.
The vehicle owner will send an invitation for the additional driver to add a vehicle.
The additional driver may:
Access and control owner’s vehicle using the VinFast App.
Add / Remove one additional driver account.
Home - VinFast ID. Tap on General Info on the Guest Homepage for more information.
Overview of the Owner’s Home Page
The home page provides users with key features, including:
Current vehicle information
Remote control (if available)
Battery and charging status
Driving assistance (if available)
Vehicle settings
Vehicle services
Notifications
Switching between owned vehicles
Current Vehicle Information
Displays an overview of the vehicle, including:
Battery capacity
Estimated driving range
Vehicle status (parked or in motion)
Total mileage
NOTE
These details may vary depending on the vehicle model or market.
Remote Control (if available)
If supported, this feature allows quick access and control of certain vehicle settings, such as: Air conditioning control, door locking/unlocking...
NOTE
Features may differ based on the vehicle model or market.
Battery and Charging
The VinFast App provides battery and charging status to help you monitor and manage your vehicle efficiently.
To access Battery and Charging details: Tap Battery & Charging from the home page
Battery & Charging Page Displays:
Charging target
Battery level (%)
Charging status
Battery leasing information (if applicable)
Nearby charging stations and availability
To change the charging target (if available):
Tap Charging Level.
Use the slider to set a new target.
Tap Save.
Battery leasing (if available):
VinFast offers a battery leasing option for customers. This feature allows you to track leasing details.
Charging History:
Tap Charging History to view past charging sessions by date.
Each session includes:
Charging date & time
Charging cost
Driving Assistance (if available)
This feature is only applicable to vehicles equipped with advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS).
Vehicle Settings
Some features may not be available depending on your vehicle version and region.
Features include:
Software updates (if available)
Vehicle information
Virtual assistant (if available)
Driving data
Vehicle Software Updates
You will receive a notification when a new software update is available. Check notifications or go to Vehicle Software Updates for details.
Virtual Assistant (if available)
The virtual assistant allows you to control the vehicle using voice commands.
Open the Virtual Assistant section. Add a new command or select a suggested command.
Vehicle Information
Provides details related to your vehicle.
Driving statistic
Driving statistic includes:
Distance
Energy
Energy electricity
Services
Some vehicle support services may not be available, depending on your vehicle version and market.
Available services:
Service booking
Roadside assistance
Vehicle alert
Test drive
Service booking
The VinFast App allows easy scheduling of service appointments.
To book a service:
Tap Book Service in the Vehicle Services section.
Fill in the required information and follow the instructions.
A confirmation notification will appear in the app.
Your request details will be stored in the Notifications section.
Roadside Assistance
The VinFast App allows you to request roadside assistance directly from your mobile device.
To request roadside assistance
Tap Roadside Assistance in the Vehicle Services section.
Tap Create A Request.
Fill in the required information and follow the instructions.
A confirmation notification will be displayed in the app.
Vehicle Alerts
You can check for any vehicle warnings in the VinFast App. Even if someone else is driving the car, you will receive alerts about any detected issues.
Based on the type of warning, the app may suggest:
Booking a service appointment
Requesting roadside assistance
Referring to the user manual with a direct link
To check for vehicle alerts:
Tap Vehicle Alerts in the Vehicle Services section.
A list of current alerts will appear (if any).
Tap an alert for more details.
Follow the prompts to book a service, request roadside assistance, or view the relevant user manual section.
All actions related to vehicle alerts will be synced with your vehicle.
Test Drive
The app provides an interface for booking test drives for VinFast vehicles.
Notifications
Please note that app functionality may vary depending on your country, vehicle model, or app updates. The VinFast App may send notifications and messages at any time.
Notification Types:
Vehicle alerts
Transaction activities
Messages from VinFast
To access notifications:
From the Home Page, tap the notifications icon.  .
Use the search bar to find specific notifications or browse the list.
Filter notifications by type.
Switching Between Owned Vehicles
This feature allows users to switch between multiple owned vehicles and view their details.
To switch vehicles: Tap the switch icon in the top corner of the screen.  .
Maps
Maps overview
1
Search bar
2
Quick search
3
Find my car
4
Location tracking
5
Map view
Find Address
Search for your destination by entering an address in the search bar or selecting from quick search suggestions.
Find My Car
To locate your vehicle, tap the Find My Car button. The app will pinpoint its location and display key details about your car.
Map View
In addition to the default view, you can select additional map features such as:
Satellite view
Traffic conditions
Dark mode
Shopping
This section provides information about:
Your orders
Current VinFast vehicle models
Car accessories
You can easily track your order status, explore the latest VinFast models, and find suitable accessories for your vehicle.
Account
This section provides key features such as:
Promotional offers
Payments
Settings
Help & Support
My Vehicles
Payments
You can choose to pay via credit card or ATM card.
To add a payment card:
Go to Payment Methods.
Tap Add Card.
Select your card type.
Enter the required details.
Tap Save.
NOTE
You can add multiple cards and set a primary payment card.
To make a payment:
Tap Bill List.
Select an invoice to pay (Charging / Battery subscription).
Tap Pay and follow the instructions.
A confirmation notification will be sent after successful payment.
NOTE
If you have a pending invoice, a payment reminder will appear on the home screen.
Settings
Users can customize and access the following key functions:
Feature
Description
Setting
Customize language, measurement units, notifications
Driver Management
Transfer vehicle ownership, add secondary drivers
Account Information
Edit owner name and phone number
Password & Security
Reset password, delete account, login options
Help & Support
This section includes:
FAQs
Support Requests
About App
Owner Manual
Terms & Conditions

## Climate Control System

Climate Controls
The climate control system cools, heats, filters and dehumidifies the air in the passenger compartment. Generally, the system works most efficiently when the windows are closed.
Climate Controls Overview
On/Off air conditioning
Air Recirculation
Air distribution
Front and Rear Defrost/ Defog
Temperature adjustment
Fan speed
To open Climate Control Menu:
Climate Control Menu can be accessed by any of the following methods:
Slide blower control   to change the blower level.
Tap climate icon   to open the Climate Control Menu.
Slide temperature control   to change temperature.
Swiping up on the climate bar   will open the Climate Control Menu.
NOTE
Water may drip from the underside of the vehicle when it is in cooling mode. Traces of water on the ground are normal and are not a sign of leakage or malfunction. If no cooling or drying is required, switch off the cooling system for range improving reasons. Under some conditions when the vehicle is charging, the A/C cooling performance may be reduced. For example, when using Fast Charging while in hot ambient conditions. The vehicle priorities the battery cooling, to ensure optimum lifetime performance of the battery.
Air Vents
Windscreen Defrost/Demist vents
Front Side windows Defrost/Demist vents
Driver Side Air vent
Front Central Air vent
Passenger Side Air Vent L
Passenger Side Air Vent R
Driver Footwell Air vent
Front Passenger Footwell Air vent
NOTE
The air distribution is adjusted by pressing the appropriate buttons on the touchscreen.
Adjustable Vents
Adjustable Air vents are provided on dashboard
To open/close the Air Vents:
Driver Side Air Vents:
Switch the Lever on 2 Driver Air Vents to the left limit position to close (Closing direction shown in image below) and switch rightward to open.
Passenger Side Air Vents:
Switch the Lever on 2 Passenger Air Vents to the right limit position (Closing direction shown in image below) to close and switch leftward to open.
NOTE
During the cooling process, at least one vent must be opened to prevent the evaporator from freezing due to lack of air movement.
CAUTION
Do not place any objects on the slats of the ventilation holes. In the event of an accident, there is a danger of personal injury.
Clear away any ice, snow, or leaves from the air inlets at the base of the windshield that could block the flow of air into the vehicle.
Air Temperature, Speed & Distribution
Temperature
To adjust the cabin temperature:
Tap on   to decrease the temperature.
Tap or tap and slide left/right   to change temperature.
Tap on   to increase the temperature.
To turn on heating:
Open Air Flow
Adjust the temperature level of the heating area (note not to open A/C)
NOTE
In cold conditions it will take a few minutes for the heater to warm up and reach a desired temperature.
To turn on Cooling:
Open Air Flow
Open A/C
Adjust the temperature gear of the cooling area
To turn on Dehumidification:
Open Air Flow
Open A/C
Adjust the temperature gear to the heating area
Air Flow
To adjust the air flow following options are available:
Tap on   to decrease the fan level.
Tap or tap and slide left/right   to change fan level.
Tap on   to increase the fan level.
If the fan is switched off the air conditioning is also deactivated.
Air Distribution
How to adjust Air Distribution
To adjust the air distribution of the Climate Control System, press the respective buttons   on the touchscreen.
To open Climate Control Menu, swipe up the climate bar.
Manual Operation
The following settings can be controlled:
Function
State on/off
Description
AC
Turn A/C and OFF
Recirculation
Tap to switch between different recirculation modes.
Air Flow Distribution
Tap to change air flow mode.
Temperature / Air Flow
Swipe left/right to increase/decrease temperature.
Drag the slider left/right to increase/decrease air flow.
Front Windscreen Defrost and Defog
The front windscreen and a portion of the front windows can be defrosted or defogged using this function
How to turn on the front windscreen defrost/defog:
Open the Climate Control Menu, swiping up the climate bar.
Tap Front defrost/defog  .
The button will become illuminated to indicate it is active.
NOTE
In warm and very humid ambient air conditions, the windscreen may mist up from the outside, when cold air is directed at it. If windscreen mists up from outside, activate windscreen wiper and defrost.
CAUTION
Damage may occur to the windscreen wipers if they are used when ice or snow on it. It is recommended to use the Defrost/Defog function or pour warm water over the windscreen to melt the ice. Avoid pouring hot water over the vehicle. It may damage the paint.
WARNING
Do not defog the windscreen using the switch with the temperature control set to the cold position, otherwise it may lead the windscreen to fog up and having poor vision can result in serious injuries or accidents for the driver.
Cabin Filtration
The Climate Control System filters the incoming air to remove dust, pollen and contaminants. For best performance the Cabin Air Filter requires replacement within the specified maintenance interval.
When driving through very dusty or polluted air, temporarily using the Recirculation Function will reduce the amount of contaminants that enter the vehicle cabin. This will also help to increase the life of the Cabin Air Filter.
NOTE
Regular cleaning of the vehicle interior is recommended, as this will help maintain the Cabin Air Filter and Climate Control System.
Recirculation Mode
Recirculation mode circulates the air within the vehicle’s cabin.
How to change recirculation mode:
Open the Climate Control Menu, swiping up the climate bar.
Tap on the Recirculation button   to switch modes.
NOTE
The outside air intakes for the climate control systems are at the base of windscreen, keep the area clean.
WARNING
If Recirculation mode is On and cooling is Off this can cause air humidity to increase and it may lead to fogging of the windows which can be dangerous while driving.
CAUTION
You should not use the outside air intake mode when it’s raining, as there is a risk of bringing moisture or water into the car.
Do not continuously use Recirculation mode in Normal Conditions, as less fresh air is not drawn into the cabin and the quality of air inside the cabin can deteriorate with time.
Climate Control System Maintenance
Air Intake
The air intake is between the windshield and the hood must be kept clean to allow air flow into the Climate Control system. Remove leaves, debris, dirt or snow.
Passenger compartment air filter maintenance:
The cabin air particle filter removes solid particles from the air inside the vehicle, such as pollen, dust and soot. The filter should be replaced as part of routine maintenance. Refer to the Vehicle Maintenance Schedule.
For instructions on how to replace the cabin air filter,  s ee > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts > Cabin Air Filter.
NOTE
If the vehicle is driven in highly polluted or dusty conditions, it is recommended to inspect and replace the filter sooner.
Regular operation of the A/C System:
The Air Conditioning (A/C) needs to be used for a few minutes each month, regardless of the weather and time of the year. This is to ensure the climate control system remains lubricated within.
Servicing of the Climate Control System:
In order to obtain the best performance from the Climate Control System, it must be maintained correctly. Refer to the Vehicle Maintenance Schedule.
The maintenance includes the following:
Heating and Cooling performance check.
Leak inspection.
Replacement of the refrigerant and pressure testing, if required.
Cleaning of the condenser and evaporator drain.
CAUTION
The refrigerant must be discharged from the system by a qualified person before any connection is disconnected.
Use only the approved refrigerant and air-conditioning compressor oil. Using non approved materials may lead to permanent damage to the vehicle.
WARNING
Servicing must be completed by a suitably certified and qualified professional. The refrigerant is toxic and must be contained. Failure follow the above may lead to serious injury or death.
Rear Demist
The rear windscreen can be demisted or defogged using Rear Demist function.
How to turn on the rear windscreen demister:
To open Climate Control Menu, swipe up the climate bar.
Tap on the Rear Demister   on the touchscreen. The button will become illuminate to indicate it is active.
NOTE
The rear demister will automatically turn Off after some time.

## Settings

Settings Overview
The Settings App allows control and adjust many of the Infotainment and Vehicle features and functions. See below a summary of settings menus available:
General
Adjust Language, Date & Time, Brightness and Wallpaper.
Sound
Adjust sound Volume, Equalizer, Tone and Focus.
Convenience
Adjust Locks, Follow Me Home, Anti-Theft and Over speed.
Connectivity
Adjust Bluetooth and Wifi.
Profile
Adjust User Profile.
System
See About, eSIM and Reset.
To access the Settings App:
From Home page
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Tap Settings  .
Greater detail on each setting category can be found later in this section.
Device Connect
Connectivity
Connectivity includes two functions: Bluetooth and WIFI
Bluetooth
Bluetooth allows the management of connections between the vehicle and portable media devices such as mobile phones. Device Connect allows the vehicle to:
Search for and pair new phone or media devices.
Switch between connected devices.
Disconnect or delete existing devices.
Manage connection settings for individual devices.
To access Device Settings:
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Tap Settings   > Device setting.
To connect a device:
Go to Device settings on your device and select “VinFast VF5”
From Device Connect, select an available device from the list
When connecting a Bluetooth device for the first time you will be asked to confirm the Pass Key between the device and Infotainment screen. Please check your device for Popups.
Advanced Settings Overview
Advanced settings allows the adjustment of the following settings:
Bluetooth name: The user can click to modify it. Default name : VinFast VF5
Do Not Disturb - Touch to toggle this feature ON/OFF. Default off.
Auto-Reply message: Turn on to send auto-reply messages when Do-not-disturb is on. You can also add a new message by tapping on Add new.
Wi-Fi
Wi-Fi Settings allows the management and selection of Wi-Fi connections between the vehicle and portable media devices or other available networks.
To access Wi-Fi Settings
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Tap Settings   > Wi-Fi
To Connect to a Wi-Fi network:
Select an available network.
Enter the network password (if required).
The connected network will then be shown in the Connected list.
To Disconnect a Wi-Fi network:
Tap on three dots of the connected Wi-Fi.
Tap Disconnect.
To Forget a Wi-Fi network:
Tap on three dots of the connected Wi-Fi.
Tap Forget.
To Connect to a hidden Wi-Fi network:
Tap on Manual Connect.
Enter Network name, Security and Password.
Tap on Connect.
NOTE
If a known Wi-Fi network does not appear in the list, move the device closer to the infotainment screen.
If more than one previously connected network is within range, the vehicle connects to the one most recently used.
Sound
Sound settings allows the adjustment of the following settings:
Volume
Tone
Focus
Volume
Volume presets can be changed for each of the following functions. Adjust the volume by using the slider controls.
Sound Settings
Volume
Start-up Limit
Ringer
In-call
Navigation
Media
Voice Assistant (if available)
To access Volume Settings
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Tap Settings   > Sound   > Volume  .
WARNING
Always pay attention to road and traffic conditions when driving. To minimize driver distraction and ensure the safety of vehicle occupants as well as other road users, avoid using the touchscreen to adjust settings while the vehicle is in motion.
NOTE
Feedback tones are automatically activated by the system to provide feedback to the user when they use sliders to adjust sound.
The above settings are absolute values and not linked to the adjusted Infotainment system volume.
The volume of the current playing source will be temporarily muted when an incoming phone call is received or a navigation direction is given (if available).
Tone
Adjust Bass, Mid and Treble settings through this option.
Focus
Adjust speaker position area through this option.
General
General allows users to adjust the following settings related to vehicle functionality:
Language
Date & Time
Brightness
Wallpaper
To access Vehicle Settings
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Tap Settings   > General.
Language
User can change the language to Vietnamese/English. When user change the language, IPC will change the language synchronously.
Date & Time
24h - Time – User can change the time format: 12H/24H.
Automatic – Tap to manually/automatically adjust the Time zone, Date and Date format.
Brightness
Touchscreen – Change the display brightness of the central control screen.
Driver Screen – Change the display brightness of the instrument cluster.
Wallpaper
User can change max of 8 wallpapers available. Selected theme gets highlighted and applied. When user change the wallpaper, the change can be seen on the home page
System
About
The system displays the following information on the About page:
eCockpit software version
eCockpit hardware version
Bluetooth MAC address
WIFI MAC address
VIN
Color
To open about
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Tap Settings   > About.
Reset (if available)
Restore the system to its original factory state. This operation will roll back all settings to the default values (except for climate control).
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Tap Settings   > System > Reset
Tap Reset button.
CAUTION
Reset causes the following consequences:
All Application roll back to their first-run states.
All SSID and password of connected WIFI networks are clear.
All key pair of paired Bluetooth connections are clear.
All history of vehicle warnings are clear.
All application caches are clear.
All contact, messaging, and call data are clear.
eSIM
The data connection for Connected Infotainment services can be made through an embedded SIM card (eSIM card) that is installed in the vehicle.
eSIM page displays the following information :
Signal strength
MNO (Mobile Network Operator)
Remaining voice packages (Talk Time )
Free package (Data )
Top up package
EID (Embedded Identity Document )
IMEI
ICCID (Integrated Circuit Card Identifier)
To open eSIM
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Tap Settings   > System > eSIM.
To reset eSIM
To reset eSIM, tap Reset button.

# Battery & Charging


## High Voltage Components

High Voltage Components Overview
All of these components use, control and/or supply High Voltage Electricity:
High Voltage Battery
3-In-1 Unit
E-MOTOR Drive System (EDS)
Charge Port with CCS2 Socket
High Voltage Cables
WARNING
In the unlikely event of a vehicle fire, immediately contact the local emergency responders.
The high voltage system has no user serviceable parts. Do not remove or replace high voltage components, cables or connectors.
High voltage cables are typically colored orange for easy identification.
Contact with High Voltage can lead to fire, electric shock, serious injury or danger to life.
Read and follow all instructions on the labels that are attached to the vehicle. These are provided for your safety.
Even when the battery is low or discharged, High Voltage can still be present throughout the vehicle’s high voltage system.

## Charging Instructions

Charging Equipment
The vehicle can be charged via a number of different charging devices. These include Mobile Chargers, Charging Stations, Super Fast Charging Stations and Home Chargers. The charging devices must have the correct charging adapter to plug into the vehicle.
Charge Plug
The vehicle is equipped with CCS (common charging system) connection. There are two types of CCS connections available:
CCS2
Mobile Charger
The mobile charger is aftersales optional part. This provides Slow Charging of your vehicle, via AC Electricity.
To use mobile charger:
Plug the mobile charger into the power supply socket
Plug into the vehicles charging port
Vehicle will start to charge via Mobile Charger
CAUTION
The mobile charger will not work without a Ground connection. The wall socket requires a Ground pin to connect to the mobile charger. This is required to Safely Ground the charging system. If the desired wall socket does not have a Ground connection, please contact a Licensed Electrician to have this rectified.
Home Charger
A home charger may be able to be installed at your home to provide convenient charging. Typically these will charge the vehicle quicker than the Mobile Charger.
Home chargers are hard wired to the power supply in the home and they require a ground connection.
Home chargers must be installed by a Licensed Electrician.
Please contact a VinFast dealership for information on VinFast wall-mounted home chargers.
Charging Stations
The vehicle can be charged at public charging stations. Charging stations may provide either AC or DC charging at various charging rates. Due to differences between charging stations, it is important to familiarize yourself with the operating instructions of each station accurately to avoid potential vehicle damage and ensure safety.
CAUTION
The use of Super Fast Charger Stations should be minimized to ensure the optimal lifetime performance of the battery.
Important Safety Warnings regarding Charging
WARNING
Contact with a High Voltage power source can lead to serious injury or risk to life.
Do not touch the contacts on the charging equipment or in the charging port of the vehicle. Never use damaged, faulty or modified charging equipment.
Never use an extension cord, adapter or power board with charging equipment.
Protect the charging socket and contacts from water or moisture and other liquids.
The charger can generate Electromagnetic waves that can affect medical electric devices such as an implantable cardiac pacemaker.
Always confirm with the medical team and manufacturer whether charging the electric vehicle will impact the operation of the medical electric devices such as a cardiac pacemaker.
There should be no water or dust in the E-gun connector and plug. Always make sure they are clean before connecting to the charger and charging inlet. Connecting while there is water or dust in the E-gun and plug may cause a fire or electric shock.
Be careful not to touch or insert anything in the charging outlet holes, charging port holes, and the E-gun holes when connecting the E-gun to the charging port in the vehicle.
Immediately stop charging if abnormal symptoms are detected such as odor or smoke.
If the charge cable outer conduit is damaged then immediately replace the charging cable to prevent electrical shock.
Charging Instructions
Electric vehicles are powered by batteries and motors which use electrical energy that is stored in a high voltage battery. When the high voltage battery is depleted, it can be charged by any of the following charge methods:
AC Charge: You can charge your electric vehicle at home or at a public charging station by plugging it into an AC charger. It’s best to charge your vehicle with AC power. AC charging extends the life of high-voltage batteries.
DC Charge: The vehicle’s high voltage battery can be charged much more quickly with DC charging than with standard charging methods. Depending on the charging station and network you choose, there is a different fee structure for DC charging.
Portable Charge: You can charge your electric vehicle using household electricity. Ensure that the electrical outlet at your home meets regulations and can safely handle the Voltage / Current (Amps) / (Watts) Power ratings specified on the portable charger.
WARNING
Everyone in the vehicle must use seatbelts while the vehicle is charging.
NOTE
Charging time will depend on the ambient air temperature, the power level, the charging type, and your location.
WARNING
Chargers generate electromagnetic waves that can seriously affect medical electric devices, such as implantable cardiac pacemakers. Make sure to ask the medical team and manufacturer if charging your electric vehicle will impact the operation of medical electric devices such as implantable cardiac pacemakers.
Charging Port
The charge port is located at the front passenger’s side front fender. Open charge door to access charge port.
How to open charge port door:
Press on the charge port door in the above shown location to open it.
Charging light (if equipped):
Charging port light statuses:
Vehicle Charging Status
Charging Port Light Status
Charging in progress
ON - continuously
Charging not in progress
OFF
Charging complete
OFF
Charge fault
The status light will blink for 90 seconds and then turn off.
Using Emergency Release Cable:
In case of electrical failure, the charge gun can be unlocked by opening the hood cover and pulling the cable.
How to plug in a charger:
To insert the charge handle, grasp the cable or plug firmly and push into the charging port. Make sure the connector is fully inserted and flush with the charge port. A poorly inserted connector may cause prolonged charge sessions or faults.
If you are using the Mobile Charger, plug it into the power outlet before plugging it into the charging port on the vehicle. Align the charger handle to the charge port and insert fully. A locking pin will hold the charger handle in place and charging will automatically begin.
After plugging in the charge gun, the vehicle will start charging.
NOTE
If the battery temperature is high, you may notice a delay before charging begins as the battery cools down. The charger handle needs to be inserted into the charging port within 1 minute of opening the charging port. Otherwise the charging port will become inactive. If this occurs, close and re-open the charging port to reactivate it.
WARNING
There should be no water or dust in the charge gun connector and plug. Always make sure they are clean before connecting the charger to charging inlet. Connecting while there is water or dust in the charge gun and plug may cause a fire or electric shock. Be careful not to touch or insert anything in the charging outlet holes, charging port holes, and the charge gun holes when connecting the charge gun to the charging port in the vehicle. Immediately stop charging if abnormal symptoms are detected such as odor or smoke. If the cable coating is damaged then immediately replace the charging cable to prevent electrical shock.
CAUTION
Make sure the charging connector and charging plug are always clean and dry. Keep the charging cable away from moisture or water.
Charging Settings Overview
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Tap EV  .
Tap the function you want and follow the instructions on the touchscreen to manage. Some of available functions are described below.
Battery Info
Charging Target
NOTE
Always refer to the charging instructions given by VinFast for safe and secure vehicle charging.
Charging status
Below is the interface before charging.
The following types of charging status will be shown on HMI screen after pugging the charger:
Fast Charging  .
Battery Status  : Current Battery state of charge (%).
Time Remaining  : The estimated time remaining to charge to the chosen set limit. See >   EV Battery App.
Driving Range  .
Battery Charge target (yellow line)  .
How to stop charging from the touchscreen:
Tap on Stop Charging.
Then driver can detach the charge gun from the charge port. When the plug is disconnected, the ‘Charging gun status’ will show ‘Stopping Charging…’, and after approximately 10 seconds the non charging HMI interface will show again.
Charging will be stopped.
NOTE
In order to prevent anyone from unplugging the charger handle without authorization, the vehicle must be unlocked before the charger handle can be removed.
Manual Release of the Charge Gun:
If the usual methods for releasing a charge cable from the charge port (using the charge handle release button) do not work, carefully follow these steps.
Ensure that the vehicle has stopped charging by checking the charging screen on the touchscreen. If necessary, tap on Stop Charging.
Open the hood.
Pull the charge port’s release cable to unlatch the charge cable.
Pull the charge cable from the charge port.
To close the Charge Port Door:
Close the charge port door and make sure it is not ajar.
WARNING
Do not pull the release cable while simultaneously attempting to remove the charge cable from the charge port. Always pull the release cable before attempting to remove the charge cable. Failure to follow these instructions can result in electric shock and serious injury.
When connecting or removing the charging cable, hold both the charging connector handle and the charging plug. Pulling the cable itself (without using the handle) may cause the internal wires to break or get disconnected. This may cause electrical shock or fire.
CAUTION
Ensure the charging port caps are correctly replaced before closing the charging port door.
Ensure the charger handle and cable are put away correctly, so that they do not cause a tripping hazard, or get caught in or damaged by the vehicle. Do not drop the charging connector (E-gun). The charging connector can be damaged.
While your vehicle is charging, do not remove the wall plug or mobile charger control box from the wall. Doing so may cause the outlet and cord to be damaged.

## Battery Information

Battery Information
The vehicle has a High Voltage (HV) battery mounted under the vehicle floor and a 12V battery (LV) located at the front of the vehicle. If the 12V or HV battery needs to be serviced, contact your nearest VinFast Service Center. For continued optimum battery performance it is important to check battery the state of charge and take proper care of the battery system. For more info on HV and LV batteries,   see > Battery Information  .
NOTE
When vehicle is left idle and unplugged, it uses energy from the High Voltage Battery for system tests and recharging the 12V battery when necessary.
CAUTION
If the High Voltage battery charging level is less than 5% please charge the vehicle immediately.
If the Battery’s charge level falls to 0%, permanent battery damage may occur.
Battery Leasing﻿ Plan Management
Information regarding your battery lease﻿ plan (if applicable) can be viewed inside your VinFast Companion App, by visiting the VinFast Auto website or by speaking with your nearest VinFast Service Center.
EV Battery App
The EV Battery App shows detailed information about your Electric Vehicle’s High Voltage Battery and charging system.
To access the EV Battery app:
Tap on the battery icon   in Home Screen.
Tap App Library   on the touchscreen.
Tap EV app  .
Charging Status
Vehicle charging status is shown on the EV Battery App as shown below.
Expected range
Charging mode
Battery percentage
Remaining time
Battery state of charge
Charging Limit
EV Battery Charge Limit is the maximum state of charge (%) the EV Battery is allowed to reach before the charger automatically shuts off.
To set the charging limit:
Tap App Library on the touchscreen.
Tap the EV battery app   > Charging Target  .
Press and slide the slider   left/right to set desired charging target.
Battery Leasing (if available)
This page provides information about your battery leasing plan’s duration. Additionally, if you have paid the battery leasing fee but your vehicle is still restricted (limited charging or disabled driving capability) due to a data connection issue, you can perform manual payment verification to temporarily remove the system’s restrictions.
To verify payment and temporarily remove system restrictions, please follow the steps below:
Tap the App Library   on the Infotainment screen, then tap the EV app  .
Access Battery Leasing  .
Select Verify Payment.
Open the VinFast app > Battery Leasing > Verify Payment.
Enter the verification code from the Infotainment screen into the VinFast app for verification.
After successful verification, the system will automatically generate an OTP code and send it to your phone.
Enter the OTP code into the Infotainment screen to verify payment and temporarily remove system restrictions.
NOTE
A notification will be displayed on the Infotainment screen upon successful payment verification.
The temporary restriction removal time will vary depending on the vehicle version or market. Please contact VinFast’s customer care center or service workshop for assistance.
After verification and temporary removal of system restrictions, please move the vehicle to a convenient location to reconnect to the server system. If the vehicle remains restricted and cannot connect to the server, please contact VinFast’s customer care center or service workshop for assistance.
Battery Care
The HV battery is maintenance free. Always pay attention to the battery status and never allow it to fully discharge. Even when the vehicle is not being driven, the Battery discharges very slowly to power the on board electronics. On average, the Battery discharges at a rate of approximately 1% per day. The discharge rate may vary depending on environmental factors (such as cold weather), configuration, and your selected settings. If the vehicle is not used for long periods of time (2-3 weeks), ensure that the vehicle have battery with sufficient charging level.
If the high voltage battery needs to be inspected, tested, or replaced, it should only be done by a trained technician. If the 12-volt or high voltage battery needs to be serviced, contact your nearest VinFast Service Center. They will be able to provide information about how the high voltage battery can be recycled.
NOTE
It is recommended to leave the vehicle plugged in whenever not in use, Battery lifetime performance increases whenever charged regularly.
For optimal lifetime performance of the battery, Minimize the use of Super fast DC Charging
If a battery pack has been involved in a fire it will need to be replaced. It may also need to be returned to the manufacturer for investigation.
If vehicle is unresponsive and does not unlock, open, or charge, the 12V battery may be discharged. In this situation, try jump starting the 12V Battery. If the vehicle is still unresponsive, contact VinFast Service Center.
Charge the vehicle HV battery to 100% SOC at least every month. For any concerns, please contact a VinFast Service Center.
CAUTION
If battery charging level is less than 5% please charge the vehicle immediately.
If the Battery’s charge level falls to 0% and leaving it unplugged for long periods of time can result in permanent battery damage.
Do not store the vehicle near heat sources, which may damage the battery or vehicle.
Do not store the vehicle in areas which may flood, as flooding may damage the battery or vehicle.
WARNING
In case of damage to the high voltage battery or other high voltage components, there is a risk of electric shock, overheating, or fire.
The vehicle should be inspected as soon as possible if it has been damaged from a moderate to severe crash, flood, fire, or other incident. The vehicle should be kept outside until it has been inspected at a distance of at least 15m (50ft) from any structure or anything that can burn. Open a window or door of the vehicle to allow air to circulate inside.
Operational factors that may affect battery lifespan
During vehicle operation, certain driving habits may subject the high-voltage battery to elevated temperatures and high electrical loads for extended periods, which may affect battery life and performance.
Frequent sudden acceleration
Repeated hard acceleration or aggressive throttle input can cause the battery to deliver high current over a short period, increasing battery temperature and stress on the battery cells.
Recommendation: Accelerate gradually and drive smoothly to help maintain stable battery operation and extend battery life.
Parking in High-Temperature Environments for Extended Periods
High ambient temperatures, especially when the vehicle is parked under direct sunlight for extended periods, can increase battery temperature and accelerate battery aging
Recommendation: Whenever possible, park the vehicle in a shaded, well-ventilated area to help protect the battery.
Operating the Vehicle with the Battery at High Temperature for Extended Periods
Continuous operation at elevated battery temperatures can accelerate side reactions inside the battery cells, reducing battery lifespan.
Recommendation: Reduce aggressive acceleration, drive gently, and allow sufficient time for the battery to cool down when necessary.
Temperature Limits
Avoid exposing the vehicle to ambient temperatures above 55°C or below -35°C for more than 24 hours at a time. Failure to follow this temperature recommendation may permanently degrade battery performance.
NOTE
Temperatures below -35°C or above 55°C cause the battery to go into protection mode which prevents charging and some features from functioning.
Low Power Consumption Mode
To protect against a complete HV battery discharge, the vehicle enters a low power consumption mode when the charge level is very low. In this mode, the HV Battery stops supporting the on-board electronics to slow the discharge rate. Once this low power consumption mode is active it is important to charge the vehicle as soon as possible, within a month, to avoid possible Battery damage.
When the low-power consumption mode is active, the 12V battery is no longer charged and can completely discharge within 12 hours. If this occurs, the 12V battery will need to be charged or replaced, before you can charge the vehicle. You can save energy by selecting the ECO driving mode from home page.
To select ECO drive mode:
NOTE
Charge the HV battery at regular intervals.
CAUTION
Do not allow the HV battery to completely discharge. There is a possibility that the HV will no longer charge if left discharged for long periods of time.

# Maintenance


## General Information

Vehicle Care Overview
To ensure trouble free use of the vehicle the maintenance requirements stipulated in this chapter should be carried out regularly. If any abnormal sounds, vibrations occur please visit a VinFast Service Center to have your vehicle inspected. Regular maintenance and servicing is recommended to prevent operational problems with the vehicle.
CAUTION
Maintenance work on the vehicle should be done only by an authorized VinFast technician.
Severe Conditions
If you drive under one or more of the following conditions, your vehicle is considered to be oprated under severe conditions.
Road Conditions
Frequently driving on rough roads, uneven roads, dirt roads, construction roads, or slippery surfaces.
Driving in environments with excessive dust, sand, or mud.
Driving on mountainous roads or roads with frequent uphill and downhill sections, causing the drivetrain and braking system to work harder.
Frequently driving in extremely hot weather above 35°C (95°F) or extremely cold weather below 0°C (32°F).
Driving Conditions
The vehicle is frequently heavily loaded.
Driving at high speeds (80% or more of the vehicle’s maximum speed for over 2 hours).
Frequently driving in extremely hot weather above 35°C (95°F) or extremely cold weather below 0°C (32°F).
NOTE
If the vehicle has been driven through flooded areas, please bring the vehicle to the nearest authorized dealer/workshop for inspection.

## Fluids, Lubricants and Parts

Cabin Air Filter
The air conditioner cabin filter is a common filter element that prevents dust, pollen and other pollutants from entering the vehicle. To achieve the best filtering effects, please replace the cabin filter within the specified maintenance interval specified by VinFast.
The cabin air filter should be replaced according to the Maintenance Schedule. If the vehicle is operated in severely air polluted cities or on dusty rough roads for a long period, it should be inspected more frequently and replaced sooner.
NOTE
Filter life depends on atmospheric conditions. If the air flow rate suddenly decreases, have the system inspected at an authorized VinFast Service Center.
It is recommended that service procedures to be carried out by an authorized VinFast technician.
Filter Replacement
How to remove the Cabin Air filter:
Open the glove box and carefully push in the sides of the glove box past the two side clips   to disengage the glove box.
Remove the Air Filter Cover   by depressing and un-clicking the retaining tab on the right side.
Remove the Air Filter  , by pulling it out.
How to install the Cabin Air filter:
To install a new air filter, reassemble in the reverse order of removal process.
Coolant
Coolant is used to maintain the operating temperature of certain components in the vehicle. When checking, the vehicle should be parked on flat ground and the cooling system must be in the cold state. Check the condition of the system hoses, ensuring that they are not cracked, swollen or deteriorated. If the coolant liquid level is below the MIN mark, open the cover of the cooling system reservoir and add coolant, do not overfill the liquid level past the MAX mark.
Use only designated coolant water for electric vehicles, adding other types of water or antifreeze can damage the vehicle.
It is recommended to check the cooling system weekly. The coolant change work should be carried out by a qualified technician if you are uncertain.
See > Technical Specifications > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts Overview   for the recommended coolant to use.
To Top-up the coolant:
Park the vehicle on flat ground and ensure the vehicles motor compartment has cooled down.
Open the front hood.
Find the coolant reservoir on the right side of the vehicle.
The cap and bottle should now be accessible. Slowly unfasten the filler cap(s) by turning it in an anti-clockwise direction, if there is a “hiss” sound stop turning the cap and wait until the sound stops. Then proceed to remove it.
Refill using Anti-Freeze Pre-Mixed Coolant AF2100 (ASTM D3306) 50% Glycol & 50% Water mixture.
Fasten and secure the filler cap(s) back on by turning it in a clockwise direction.
NOTE
Make sure that there are no debris near the cap and bottle. Prevent any debris from entering the reservoir, it may cause damage of the equipment.
In an emergency, a small amount of water can be added to the coolant storage tank. However, it should be noted that this will weaken the anti-freeze and anti-corrosion protection and reduce the service life of the coolant.
Do not use other components of antifreeze to add to the cooling system. As the vehicle coolant temperature decreases, the radiator fan will automatically shut off. This is a normal condition.
CAUTION
Keep coolant in a sealed container in a safe place.
Don’t exceed the MAX mark when adding coolant.
WARNING
The coolant reservoir cap should not be removed when the vehicle is ON or when the cooling system is hot. Let the cooling system cool for 10 minutes before removing the cap. Remove the coolant reservoir cap slowly and cover it with a thick cloth to prevent scalding. Not following these instructions may result in serious injury.
Coolant is extremely toxic and can be fatal if swallowed. Keep coolant tanks sealed and out of reach of children. If a child has accidentally been exposed to the coolant, seek medical attention immediately.
Prevent coolant from making contact with skin and eyes. If it does, rinse immediately with plenty of water.
When changing coolant be careful, as there are High Voltage components in this area.
Do not touch heater, radiator, A/C pipes or hoses. They can be very hot and can cause severe burns.
Do not run the vehicle if there is a leak; all coolant could leak out. That could cause a fire and can burn you. Fix any leaks before driving the vehicle.
Keep hands, clothing and tools away from the rotating fan blades of the radiator cooling fan, to avoid injury.
Washer Fluid
Washer fluid is used for cleaning the windshield with the operation of the windshield wipers. It is recommended to always check the fluid level in the washer fluid reservoir and add fluid if necessary.
The Washer fluid reservoir is located under the front hood of the vehicle.
To Top-up the Washer Fluid:
Pull open the washer fluid cap.
Refill washer bottle with washer fluid until full.
Push close the washer bottle cap, ensuring it is properly attached.
NOTE
Always add window cleaner to the water, if you are using plain water instead of washer fluid, anti-freezing agent should be added to the water so that it does not freeze.
Always read the manufacturer’s instructions before using any washer fluid.
Some national and local regulations restrict the use of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs). VOCs are commonly used as antifreeze in washer fluid. Use a washer fluid with limited VOC content only if it provides adequate freeze resistance for all climates in which the vehicle is driven.
In some countries local regulations prohibit the use of methanol based washer fluid, use ethanol-based washer fluid instead.
CAUTION
Add washer fluid carefully, do not let it splash onto the exterior surface of the vehicle.
The windscreen and wiper may get scratched or damaged if the wiper is turned on without using the washer when the windscreen is dry.
The concentration of anti-freezing agent must be adjusted to the vehicle operating conditions and the climate. A concentration that is too high can lead to vehicle damage.
Never add radiator anti-freeze or other additives to the washer fluid.
Do not use a glass cleaner that contains paint solvents, because this could damage the paint.
Do not add formulated washer fluids that contain water repellent or bug wash. These fluids can cause streaking, smearing, and squeaking or other noises.
WARNING
Do not touch any High Voltage components in washer fluid reservoir area.
Washer fluid can irritate eyes and skin. Read and observe the instructions provided by the washer fluid manufacturer.
In temperatures below 40° F (4° C), use a washer fluid with antifreeze. In cold weather, using a washer fluid without antifreeze can impair visibility through the windshield.
Do not drink washer fluid and avoid contact with skin. Washer fluid is harmful to humans and animals.
Keep washer fluid away from children and animals.
Wiper Blades
Windshield wiper blades should be inspected on a regular basis for wear or cracking. Contamination of either the windshield or the wiper blades with foreign matter can reduce the effectiveness of the windshield wipers.
Common sources of contamination are:
Insects
Tree sap
Hot wax treatments used by some commercial car washes
If the blades are not wiping properly, clean both the windshield and the blades with a mild detergent, and rinse thoroughly with clean water.
Wiper blades will degrade over time and eventually require replacement. If water is not sufficiently cleared from the windscreen and blades squeak when operating the wipers, blade replacement may be required.
To remove the front wiper blades:
Keep the bonnet closed and turn off the vehicle.
Lift the wiper arm away from the windshield.
Press the snap shown and push the snap end away from the wiper arm.
Remove the wiper from the wiper arm.
Push the wiper blades along the rails.
Push the wiper blade snap into the slot of wiper arm.
Place the wiper assembly back on the windshield and check that the wiper is properly attached to the wiper arm.
To replace the rear wiper blade please visit a VinFast Service Center.
NOTE
Always use replacement blades that are identical to original blades. Using inappropriate blades can damage the wiper system and windshield.
Allowing the wiper arm to touch the windshield when no wiper blade is installed could damage the windshield. Any damage that occurs would not be covered by the vehicle warranty. Do not allow the wiper arm to touch the windshield.
CAUTION
Wiper blades cannot be locked into a lifted position. Do not lift a wiper arm beyond its intended position, it can cause damage to wiper blade.
Brake Pads & Fluid
Brake pads and brake fluid are the main components of the vehicle braking system, If they get damaged then it will affect the braking ability of the vehicle. Driver should always take care and inspect brake pads and fluids on a regular basis.
Brake Pads
All brake pads should be checked and renewed as necessary. Brake pad wear depends largely on the way the vehicle is driven and on the vehicle operating conditions. Brake pad wear increases when driving frequently in the city or short distances or when using a very sporty driving style.
The vehicle is equipped with brake pad wear indicators. A wear indicator is a thin metal strip that is attached to the brake pad that will produce a squealing sound when it comes in contact with the brake rotor. The sound will be heard when the brake pad material has worn to the end of its service life. If this occurs or there is difficulty stopping the vehicle when the brake pedal is pressed, please contact VinFast Service Center to have the braking system inspected.
NOTE
Always replace brake pads as a set, either both front or both rear sets.
To avoid costly brake repairs, do not continue to drive with worn brake pads.
WARNING
Neglecting to service your vehicle braking system may result in reduced brake system performance, an increased stopping distance or may lead to a collision. Replace worn brake pads immediately. Damage to the braking system can result in a braking hazard.
The braking effect may get reduced if the brake pads get wet for example, after heavy rainfall or after washing the vehicle. Be prepared to exert higher force on the brake pedal in order to compensate.
Salt layer on the brake pads may effect the braking performance of the vehicle.
Overheated brakes reduce the braking effect and considerably increase the braking distance.
Brake Fluid
Brake fluid is a type of hydraulic fluid used in hydraulic brake system to transfer force into pressure, and to amplify braking force.
The brake fluid level in the reservoir should be checked regularly. Brake fluid has a tendency to absorb moisture from surroundings over time. The hydraulic braking system may get damaged if there is too much moisture in the braking fluid.
To Check the Brake Fluid:
Make sure the vehicle is parked on a flat ground.
Let the braking system cool down.
Brake fluid reservoir is located under the front hood.
The fluid level should be between the MIN and MAX indicator marks as shown on the side of the reservoir.
There are two reasons why the brake fluid level in the reservoir may go down:
Brake pads normal wear. When new pads are installed, the fluid level goes back up.
Fluid leak in the hydraulic brake system. Have the hydraulic brake system fixed. With a leak, the brakes will not work well.
Always clean the brake fluid reservoir cap and the area around the cap before removing and installing the cap.
Do not top off the brake fluid.
If fluid is added due to worn pads, when new brake pads are installed there will be too much fluid. Add or remove fluid, as necessary, only when work is performed on hydraulic brake system.
NOTE
The brake fluid used in this vehicle is DOT 4. Do not mix other types of brake fluid, otherwise it will cause damage to the braking system and components.
The red brake indicator   on the infotainment display will illuminate if the brake fluid in the reservoir drops below the recommended level.
If the ABS indicator   illuminates while you are driving, this indicates a malfunction. Visit a VinFast Service Center as soon as possible.
NOTE
The brake fluid level drops slightly during vehicle operation and as the brake pads wear.
CAUTION
Brake fluid level must be between MIN and MAX level. Brake fluid may leak out over the edge of the reservoir. IF the brake fluid level is above the MAX marking, it may cause damage to the vehicle.
Only use new fluid from a sealed airtight container. Never use previously used fluid or fluid from a previously opened container, brake fluid has a tendency to absorb moisture which decreases braking performance.
Do not allow any brake fluid to come into contact with the vehicle paint, to avoid corrosion.
Contact VinFast immediately if you notice increased movement of the brake pedal or a significant loss of brake fluid. Driving under these conditions can result in extended stopping distances or complete brake failure.
WARNING
If the brake light illuminates while driving, stop as soon as you can and check brake fluid. If left unchecked, this may prevent effective braking and cause increased movement in brake pedal and/or complete brake failure.
Brake fluid is highly toxic. Keep brake fluid storage tanks sealed and out of reach of children. If accidentally exposed to brake fluid, seek medical attention immediately.
Prevent brake fluid from making contact with skin and eyes. If contact is made, rinse immediately with water. If redness, pain or discomfort persists, seek medical attention as soon as possible.
Never touch any of the High Voltage components in the brake fluid reservoir area.
Do not use incorrect or unapproved or contaminated brake fluid, it may in damage to the brake system. This could result in the loss of braking leading to a possible injury.
Air Conditioner
In order to ensure continuous and efficient operation of the air conditioning system,regardless of the weather and time of the year, a few minutes of cooling must be performed once a month.
The Air conditioning system in the vehicle is filled with R-134a refrigerant.
NOTE
Use only the correct refrigerant and air-conditioning compressor oil.
In humid climates, the air conditioning may create water droplets inside the vehicle. It is recommended to use the air conditioner with the windows closed.
This vehicle runs much quieter than a gasoline-powered vehicle, you may notice the sound of the A/C compressor as it is operating.
WARNING
Air conditioning systems contain high-pressured refrigerants.
Air conditioning refrigerant systems should only be serviced by qualified personnel. Opening the air conditioner refrigerant system can result in serious injures.

## Electrical System

Fuses and Circuit Breakers
The vehicle has fuses and circuit breakers to protect against an electrical system overload. The three main fuse boxes in the vehicle are located in the driver side left-hand panel, in the front compartment under the hood, and on top of the 12V battery. It is strongly recommended to have electrical fuses changed or inspected by VinFast technician.
Whenever a fuse blows, the element inside is melted or broken. If there is a problem and a fuse needs to be replaced, ensure a fuse of the identical size and rating is used. If the fuse on the replacement blows immediately, please contact the local authorized VinFast Service Center for maintenance as soon as possible.
CAUTION
A fuse must not be replaced with anything but another fuse with the same rating. Never try to repair a blown fuse. Do not use copper wire or aluminum foil as a temporary substitute for the proper fuse. Such substitutes can cause extensive wiring damage, possibly resulting in a fire. Avoid using a screwdriver or any other metal objects to remove fuses, as they may cause short circuits.
WARNING
Fuses and circuit breakers are marked with their ampere rating. Do not exceed the specified amperage rating when replacing fuses and circuit breakers. The use of an oversized fuse or circuit breaker can result in a vehicle fire. You and others could be seriously injured or killed.
Installation or use of fuses that do not meet VinFast’s original fuse specifications is dangerous. The fuses could fail, and result in a fire. You or others could be injured or killed, and the vehicle could be damaged.
Spilling liquid on any electrical component on the vehicle may damage it. Always be very careful when working around electrical components.
Instrument Panel Fuse box
To access instrument panel fuses:
Turn the vehicle Off.
Make sure all switches are in the Off position.
Remove the main driver’s instrument panel cover.
Refer to the description provided inside the fuse panel cover to replace any required fuse.
Remove the required fuse by using the removal tool which is provided in the Engine Bay fuse box.
Check and replace the blown fuse.
Make sure the replaced fuse has the same rating and it fits tightly in its place. If in doubt, please contact a VinFast service technician.
Fuse Details:
INSTRUMENT PANEL FUSE & RELAY DETAILS
Fuse Name
Fuse Identification
Type
Rating
Post Deforst
IF03
FUSE
30A
ACC Relay
IF04
FUSE
25A
Window L
IF05
FUSE
20A
Window R
IF06
FUSE
20A
Gateway/Radar IG
IF09
FUSE
5A
IP_IG
IF10
FUSE
5A
ACU_IG
IF11
FUSE
5A
Out_Mirror_SW/CCU
IF12
FUSE
5A
E_Shifter_IG
IF13
FUSE
5A
PDU&EVCC_IG
IF14
FUSE
5A
MCU_IG
IF15
FUSE
5A
BMS_IG
IF16
FUSE
5A
VCU_IG
IF17
FUSE
5A
ESC_IG
IF18
FUSE
5A
EPS_IG
IF19
FUSE
5A
12V_Backup battery
IF20
FUSE
25A
MFS/MHU_ACC
IF21
FUSE
5A
BCM/Gateway_ACC
IF22
FUSE
5A
PLUG sockets rear
IF23
FUSE
7.5A
IG_RLY
IF24
FUSE
20A
ACU
IF25
FUSE
5A
Door Lock
IF26
FUSE
15A
Back_Lamp
IF27
FUSE
5A
ACC/IG/Lamp
IF28
FUSE
10A
Lamp_1
IF29
FUSE
15A
OBD/BSD
IF30
FUSE
10A
Lamp_2
IF31
FUSE
10A
CCU/ReadLamp
IF32
FUSE
10A
Gateway/EKS
IF33
FUSE
5A
Rear Wiper/Washer
IF34
FUSE
20A
MHU1
IF35
FUSE
25A
IP
IF36
FUSE
5A
ACC_Relay
IR01
RELAY
40A
IG_Relay
IR02
RELAY
30A
Back_Lamp_Relay
IR03
RELAY
30A
Rear Defrost_Relay
IR04
RELAY
30A
Engine Fuse box
To access engine fuse box fuses:
To replace the Engine bay fuse:
Turn the vehicle Off.
Make sure all switches are in the Off position.
Open the bonnet.
Remove the fuse panel cover by pressing the two tabs and pulling upwards.
Refer to the description provided inside the fuse panel cover to place the required fuse.
Remove the blown fuse out by using the removal tool which is provided in the Engine Bay fuse box.
Check and replace the blown fuse.
Make sure the replaced fuse has the same rating and it fits tightly in its place. If in doubt please contact a VinFast service technician.
NOTE
Remember to securely install the fuse panel cover back, if not securely attached, water may enter and cause electrical damage. If a multi-fuse has blown, it is recommended to contact a VinFast service technician.
Fuse Details:
ENGINE FUSE & RELAY DETAILS
Fuse Name
Fuse Identification
Type
Rating
ESC_1
EF01
FUSE
60A
ESC_2
EF02
FUSE
30A
Blower
EF03
FUSE
25A
FAN
EF04
FUSE
25A
Vacuum Pump
EF05
FUSE
20A
MCU
EF06
FUSE
15A
BMS
EF07
FUSE
10A
VCU_1
EF08
FUSE
10A
Main RLY
EF09
FUSE
15A
Low beam
EF10
FUSE
15A
Right Low beam
EF11
FUSE
10A
Left Low beam
EF12
FUSE
10A
VCU_2
EF13
FUSE
5A
EAC
EF14
FUSE
5A
EVCC
EF15
FUSE
5A
Horn
EF16
FUSE
15A
Water Pump(Motor)
EF17
FUSE
15A
Water Pump(Battery)
EF18
FUSE
15A
PDU
EF19
FUSE
10A
Wiper
EF20
FUSE
25A
Chiller/Valve(AC)
EF21
FUSE
5A
High_Wiper_Relay
ER05
RELAY
30A
Low_Wiper_Relay
ER06
RELAY
30A
Low_beam_Relay
ER07
RELAY
30A
Blower_Relay
ER08
RELAY
40A
Main_Relay
ER09
RELAY
30A
Water_Pump_Relay(M)
ER11
RELAY
30A
Water_Pump_Relay(Bat)
ER12
RELAY
30A
Vacuum_Pump_Relay
ER14
RELAY
40A
Horn_Relay
ER15
RELAY
30A
Fan_Relay
ER16
RELAY
40A
12V Auxiliary Battery Fuse box:
To access 12V Auxiliary Battery Fuse box:
Turn the vehicle Off.
Make sure all switches are in the Off position.
Open the bonnet.
Remove the fuse panel cover by pressing the two tabs and pulling upwards.
Refer to the description provided inside the fuse panel cover to place the required fuse.
Remove the blown fuse out by using the removal tool which is provided in the Engine Bay fuse box.
Check and replace the blown fuse.
Make sure the replaced fuse has the same rating and it fits tightly in its place. If in doubt please contact a VinFast service technician.
Fuse Details:
12V FUSE DETAILS
Fuse Name
Fuse Identification
Type
Rating
Engine_Fuse_Box
1
FUSE
125A
IP_Fuse_Box
2
FUSE
125A
EPS
3
FUSE
80A
DC-DC
4
FUSE
150A
Light Bulbs
Replacement lights must be of the same type and size as the original lights.
Exterior Lights
Front & Side Light:
Head lamp
Side turn signal lamp
Headlamp:
As shown Headlamp (LH)
Position Lamp
Turn signal Lamp
High beam
Low beam
Rear Light:
High brake lamp
Decorative strip
Tail lamp
License plate lamp
Reflector & Rear lamp
Rear Light:
As shown Tail lamp (LH)
Position lamp
Turn Signal Lamp
Brake/Stop Lamp
Rear Light:
As shown Reflector & Rear Lamp(RH)
Reverse lamp
Rear Reflector
CAUTION
Avoid contact with liquids and also do not touch with bare hands. Residual oil may cause the bulb to overheat and burst when switch on.
Replace immediately if LED light is dimmed, cracked or damaged and carefully dispose of.
Interior Lights
CAUTION
Replace any LED only with a new LED of the same specification.
Do not touch the glass portion of the LED light with bare hands.
When holding the glass portion is unavoidable, hold it using with a clean dry cloth to avoid getting moisture and grease on the bulb.
Try to avoid dirty or damaged lenses, lens tabs, and plastic housings.
Reading lamp (SOS button)
Door
SOS
SPOT
Reading lamp (without SOS button)
Battery
The vehicle is equipped with a 12V battery that is used to power the vehicle and its
electrical components.
Even when the electrical equipment is switched off, the battery can still drain if it is not driven for long periods of time. Contact an authorized VinFast dealer or authorized VinFast service facility for more information.
NOTE
If the vehicle becomes unresponsive and does not unlock, open, or charge, the low voltage battery may be discharged. Contact VinFast authorized service center.
When the vehicle is parked for a long time (more than 1 month), it is recommended to disconnect the negative terminal of the battery. Make sure the ignition switch is off before connecting or disconnecting the negative terminal of the vehicle battery.
In extreme cold weather conditions, have the battery checked at an authorized VinFast Service Center before driving.
CAUTION
Always read and follow instructions carefully when handling a battery.
Do not use the Battery as a stationary power source. Doing so voids the warranty.
WARNING
Wear correct PPE to avoid injury from acid splashes from the battery.
Keep batteries out of reach from children.
Batteries contain sulfuric acid, avoid contact with skin and eyes or clothes. Wash immediately with water if contact is made. Seek medical attention if you feel pain or burning sensations.
Never touch any of the electrical system components when vehicle is starting or when ignition is On.
The Battery has no parts that the owner or a non-VinFast authorized service technician can service. Under no circumstances should you open or tamper with the Battery. Contact authorized VinFast Service Center to arrange for Battery servicing.
Battery Maintenance:
To ensure optimum working of electronics components of the vehicle, check the health of the 12V battery regularly.
Ensure battery is securely mounted
Ensure battery is clean and dry, with no visible liquid leaks
Ensure battery terminals and connections are always clean, secure and are coated with terminal grease
Battery Replacement:
Only use parts authorized by VinFast. It is recommended to install the same type and specification battery as the original battery. Please contact an authorized VinFast dealer for more details.
The following functions may need to be reset after the battery has been disconnected:
Climate control settings
Clock and Phone settings
Infotainment system

## Wheels and Tires

Tires
The standard tire size is 205/55R17. The spare tire (if equipped) size is T125/80R16. The recommended tire pressure is listed on the label attached to the driver’ s side center pillar.
It is recommended to maintain proper tire inflation pressure and stay within the specified load limits and weight distribution of the vehicle. This will ensure the safety of all passengers and maximize the fuel economy and efficiency of the vehicle.
CAUTION
Be sure to check the tires during daily inspections.
It is the duty of the vehicle user to check the tires.
The recommended cold tire pressure can be found in this manual or on the tire label located on the driver’ s side center pillar.
It is important that the tire pressures are correct to maximize the tire life and vehicle performance. Under inflated tires will wear out the inner and outer edges of the tire and cause the vehicle to handle poorly due to tire flexibility.
Over inflated tires will have a smaller contact area on the road surface, and therefore have reduced traction. The center of the tire will tend to wear out faster if tires are over inflated.
Replace tires that are worn, show uneven wear or damaged. Worn tires can cause loss traction, loss of braking effectiveness and steering control. Always replace tires with the same size, type, make and tread pattern as was originally supplied with the vehicle.
WARNING
Do not drive if tire is damaged, worn out or not properly inflated. This can cause serious damage to the vehicle and a risk to passenger safety.
Tire Pressure
All tire pressures (including spare tire if equipped) should be checked when the tires are cold. To ensure this criteria is met, the vehicle must not have been driven for at least 5 hours or less than 2km.
The recommended tire pressure is listed on the label attached to the driver’s side center pillar.
Tire Pressure Warning (if available)
The Low Tire Pressure Warning indicator   will illuminate on the instrument panel and sound a chime to alert the driver there is an issue with one or more tires on the vehicle.
If the low tire pressure indicator flashes on the instrument panel, this alerts the driver that there is a malfunction with the iTPMS system.   See >Displays, Connections and Climate>Car Control>iTPMS   for more details.
The driver can view more details about the issue by viewing the warning messages displayed on the instrument panel (  see >Driving > Instrument Panel > Tire Pressure  ). The table below shows the possible iTPMS warning message and the recommended fix:
Issue
Warning Message Displayed
Recommended Fix
Tire Pressure too Low
Tire Pressure warning
Please adjust pressures
Please adjust tire pressure to recommended range
For more details on how to check tire pressure, see Tire Pressure Check below.
Tire Pressure Check:
It is recommended to check the tire pressure every 14 days or before long-distance travel. If there is a spare tire, also check the pressure of this tire.
Remove the valve cap from the tire valve stem.
Press the tire gauge firmly onto the valve to get a pressure measurement. If the cold tire inflation pressure matches the recommended pressure on the Tire Placard no further adjustment is necessary.
If the pressure is low, add air until you reach the recommended pressure.
If you overfill the tire, release air by pushing on the metal stem in the center of the tire valve. Recheck the tire pressure with the pressure gauge.
Put the valve caps back on the valve stems. Without the valve cap, dirt or moisture could get into the valve and cause air leakage. If a valve cap is missing, install a new one as soon as possible.
If a tire is not maintaining pressure, please have the tire inspected by a VinFast Service Center.
NOTE
Incorrectly inflated tires may wear faster and create more road noise.
WARNING
Driving with an incorrectly inflated tire can affect the vehicle handling, steering and braking. This can lead to an accident, causing serious injury or risk to life.
Tire Pressure Monitor
See > Displays, Connections and Climate >Car Control>iTPMS   section for more details on how to reset and view the individual tire pressures of your vehicle.
Tire Wear & Tread Depth
The tire is designed with a tread pattern wear indicator line. The minimum tread patten depth is 1.6mm. If necessary, a tread depth gauge can be used to measure.
If the tire is lightly worn or the wear mark (wear limit mark) is exposed, accidents may occur. After the tire wear reaches the limit, the tire should be replaced immediately.
The wear marks  .
A mark indicating the location of the wear mark  .
WARNING
Replace tires that are worn or damaged. Worn tires can cause loss of braking, steering control and traction.
It is recommended to change tires as sets, either the front two or rear two tires.
Always replace tires with the same size that was originally supplied.
Driving in hot climates or high vehicle loads can cause the tires wear to out faster. Regular inspection is recommended.
CAUTION
When the vehicle is driven at a high speed and/or in wet conditions, Steering and braking will not perform optimally.
Tire Rotation
In order to make the wear of each tire uniform and extend its life, it is recommended that the tires be rotated every 12,000km. Please refer to the diagram below when changing the tire positions.
Every time the tire is rotated, the wear should be checked. Check whether the tread pattern or the side of the tire is damaged or bulging. If tire is damaged or bulging, replace the tire immediately.
When rotating the tires, check the wear and condition of the brake disc and brake pads.
After the tires are rotated, ensure that the front and rear tire pressures and tightening force of the wheel nuts meet the specified values.
When fitted, the tire pressure will need to be initialized for the tire pressure monitoring system to work properly,   See > Displays, Connections and Climate > Car Control >iTPMS  .
NOTE
For vehicles equipped with directional tires, please note: Cross-rotating the tires (e.g., from the left rear to the right front) is strictly prohibited, as it would reverse the designed direction of tire rotation. Directional tires are engineered to rotate in only one direction to ensure optimal traction, water dispersion, and driving safety. Cross-rotation would result in incorrect rotation, potentially causing serious safety hazards, especially on wet roads or at high speeds.
Directional tires should only be rotated from front to rear or rear to front on the same side of the vehicle to maintain the correct direction of rotation.
Please visit a VinFast Service Center if you need to rotate the tires diagonally.
Wheel Alignment and Balance
Wheels and tires on the vehicle are aligned and balanced to give the longest tire life and overall performance. The following situations will need the wheels and tires to be aligned:
After replacing the tire or repairing in a collision accident.
After disassembling and repairing the tire, reassemble the tire on the rim.
Serious unilateral side wear of front and rear tires.
When the vehicle is driving at high speed, if the wheels shake or the steering wheel vibrates.
When the vehicle pulls to the left or right, rather than going straight.
NOTE
Wheels and tire alignment should be carried out by approved VinFast service technicians.

## Vehicle Cleaning

Exterior Care
The exterior of the vehicle should be regularly cleaned to maintain the vehicle’s appearance and condition. More frequent cleaning is recommended if driving on roads that have had salt or antifreeze applied or in coastal areas, as these can increase the risk of corrosion of the vehicles body and metal components.
Cleaning Body Panels:
Wash the body of the vehicle with soapy water or noncorrosive mild gel detergents as necessary, and wipe with a soft cloth.
Cleaning ensure good visibility through the windows and mirrors and provide others with a clear visual of the brake light and indicator lights.
Before washing, check that all doors and windows are closed properly and remove any heavy deposits of mud and dirt with a hose. If hand washing, use a soft cloth with an approved and tested soap diluted in lukewarm water. Rinse with clean water and dry thoroughly with a chamois or a soft microfiber towel.
Clean windows and mirrors using an approved automotive glass cleaner. Do not use any abrasive cleaning fluid on either of the surfaces.
Inspect for minor paintwork damage such as stone chips and rectify immediately to prevent the formation of rust.
CAUTION
Do not use petroleum based, or abrasive cleaning agents as they can damage the vehicle’s paint.
Have stubborn stains removed by a qualified workshop.
Improper vehicle cleaning can cause severe damage to the vehicle.
Do not wash the vehicle in direct sunlight.
When using high pressure washer, hold the nozzle at a sufficient distance away from the surface of the vehicle. Do not aim directly at parking sensors, body seals, cables or electronic modules.
Never aim a water jet directly at doors or the boot lid in cold weather, the components could freeze up.
Do not use excessively hard, abrasive cleaning tools.
Use water up to a maximum temperature of +60°C (+140°F) only.
Make sure the charging port door is closed prior to washing the vehicle. Do not spray high pressure water towards the charge port as it may result in damage to the vehicle or related charging equipment.
Do not place any stickers or magnetic signs on vehicle components painted with matte finish paint. The paint could be damaged when the stickers or magnets are removed.
WARNING
Incorrect care and cleaning of vehicle parts can impair the safety features of the vehicle and cause serious injury. Vehicle parts must be cleaned according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Always use approved or recommended cleaning products.
Vehicle cleaning products may be toxic and hazardous. Improper use of care products and incorrect application of care products can cause accidents, severe injuries, burns or poisoning.
Keep children away from all cleaning products.
Use care products only outside or in well-ventilated rooms so that you do not breathe in any toxic vapors.
Never use turpentine, nail varnish remover or other volatile fluids for vehicle cleaning. These substances are highly toxic and flammable.
Brake performance may be reduced after washing the vehicle. Test the brakes while driving slowly to see if they have been affected by water. If braking performance is impaired, dry the brakes by applying them gently while maintaining a slow speed.
Cleaning the Wheels:
The aluminum alloy wheels should be cleaned at the same time as the rest of the vehicle. After washing with the same solution, rinse thoroughly with water.
The wheels have a transparent protective layer (paint) to protect the aluminum from corrosion and rust. Using non-suitable cleaners (including some marketed wheel cleaners) or hard brushes can damage the coating. Only use a neutral cleaner and a soft brush or sponge to clean the wheels.
CAUTION
Drive the vehicle slowly so as not to damage tires and wheels. After driving, inspect the tires and wheels.
When passing over a pothole, speed bump, manhole, or curb stone,drive the vehicle slowly so as not to damage the tires and wheels.
Cleaning Under body:
Regularly check the under body for build up of dirt, grime and debris that may lodge in unsuspecting areas.
From a safe distance, thoroughly flush the vehicle under body and wheel openings with lukewarm or cold water. Avoid using a high pressure hose when cleaning the under body. The High Voltage battery is sealed to prevent water intrusion.
If damage or corrosion are detected, have the vehicle inspected by a VinFast Service Center.
Keep the drain holes at the lower edges of the doors, rocker panels and frame members free from clogging with debris. Any trapped water inside these areas can cause them to corrode.
Wash the underside of the vehicle once road salts are stopped being used for the season.
WARNING
The vehicle must be cold, on a flat surface, in Park mode and handbrake should be applied when attempting to clean the under body of the vehicle.
Do not touch any orange high voltage cabling if cleaning the under body of the vehicle.
Always wear protective clothing when cleaning near sharp metal components, for example vehicle under body.
Automatic car washes:
It is safe to wash electric vehicles in automatic car washes. The equipment will not damage the electric motor or battery as they are sealed to prevent water intrusion.
It is recommended to use touch less automatic car washes as no contact is made to the exterior of the vehicle with rotating brushes that have the potential to damage the paintwork.
NOTE
Do not drive the vehicle through an automatic car wash that uses silicon carbide tire/wheel cleaning brushes. Damage could occur and the repairs would not be covered by the vehicle warranty.
CAUTION
In automatic car washes, fold the exterior mirrors so that they don’t get damaged.
Check and compare height and width of the car wash with the vehicle so that the vehicle doesn’t get damaged
Car washes that scan the contours mechanically may damage the vehicle, e.g. spoiler.
Radar, Sensor, Camera Care
In order for the Driver Assistance Systems to function properly, the cameras, radars, and sensors must be kept free of dirt, mud, ice, snow, etc and should be washed regularly with water and car washing detergent.
Obstructing the cameras, radars, and sensors can disable or cause limited functionality of the systems, and in some circumstances can show false warnings.
NOTE
If obstructed, a driver assistance warning message will appear on the infotainment display identifying that a camera, radar or sensor is fault.
Warning messages are summarized as follows:
Rear Parking Sensors Obstructed
BSD millimeter wave Radar Obstructed
Rear view camera Obstructed
Cleaning
Clear any dirt or grime build-up by wiping the components with a soft cloth and lukewarm water or by spraying water.
The advanced driver assistance systems will function normally after cleaning. If the warning message persists after the sensors and cameras are cleaned, the system may be faulty. Please visit a VinFast Service Center to have the system inspected.
If any damage is evident on any of the components or their surrounding parts, please visit a VinFast Service Center to have the issue rectified.
CAUTION
Do not clean sensors or cameras with abrasive objects or cleaners, that may damage its surface and can lead to reduced functionality.
Do not attempt to remove dirt, grime, debris, etc by wiping an exposed lens with your hands or a dry cloth. The lens can be damaged by debris rubbing against the lens surface while wiping.
Avoid aiming a high-pressure washer directly at the sensors or cameras, while washing the vehicle.
Do not install or apply objects, such as a bumper sticker, film or a bumper guard on or near the radars and sensors.
WARNING
Dirty or damaged radars, sensors or cameras may affect the performance of your advanced driver assistance systems.
In case the radars have been replaced, they will require re-calibration. The re-calibration process must be performed by a trained VinFast technician for optimal functioning of ADAS.
Interior Care
Regularly clean the vehicle’s interior to prevent a build-up of dirt and dust that could cause premature degradation of the surfaces.
Wipe all surfaces down with a slightly damped microfiber cloth with approved interior cleaning products. Drying immediately will prevent streaks from remaining on the surface.
NOTE
Never allow water or other liquids to come in contact with electrical or electronic components inside the vehicle as this may damage them.
When cleaning leather products (steering wheel, seats etc) use neutral detergents or low alcohol content solutions. Avoid using high alcohol content solutions or alkaline detergents, as it may cause the color of the leather may fade or the surface may get stripped off.
CAUTION
Do not spray liquids directly onto the surface of switches and controls. Any fluid that leaks into the gaps around switches and controls can damage the electronics of the vehicle.
To prevent damage to interior surfaces, do not clean with chemical solvents or strong detergents. Do not spray cleaners on any switches or controls.
Do not use water or other liquids to come in contact with electrical components inside the vehicle as it may result in damage. Never rub any surface aggressively or with too much pressure.
Cleaning Seats and Seatbelts:
To prevent ingrained dirt and staining, clean the seat upholstery regularly. Wipe the seat surfaces down using a clean, dampened, non-colored cloth or vacuum with a soft brush attachment. Do not leave excessive water on the surface.
Fully extend the seatbelts and clean them with a mild, nonabrasive soap and lukewarm water. After washing thoroughly, sponge the solution out of the belts. Do not allow the belts to retract until fully dry
Regularly inspect the seatbelt webbing for contamination, damage or fraying.
CAUTION
Do not use bleach, strong detergents or an abrasive brush or cloth to clean the seatbelt as it may damage and weaken the fabric.
Do not use steamers, brushes with hard bristles, hard sponges etc to clean the seats as this can damage the seats.
Do not bleach or re-dye the webbing because this may weaken the seatbelt.
WARNING
Any damage identified on a seatbelt should be rectified immediately at a VinFast Service Center. Never use a damaged seatbelt. Do not allow passengers to ride in any area of the vehicle that is not equipped with seats and seatbelts.
Do not allow any water, cleaning products, or fabric from cloths to enter the seatbelt mechanism. Any substance, which enters the mechanism, may affect the performance of the seatbelt in an impact. Damage to the seatbelt can greatly reduce its effectiveness in reducing the risk of serious injury or death in the event of an accident.
Never remove seatbelts to clean them.
Airbags Maintenance:
Gently clean surfaces with a slightly dampened cloth. Clear any obstructions in the area forward of the airbags.
WARNING
Any liquid and substance that enters the airbag mechanism may prevent its proper deployment during an impact. A compromised airbag system could result in serious injury or death in the event of an accident.
Cleaning Glass Windows:
Clean the interior glass surfaces regularly using an approved glass cleaner to provide a clear and unobstructed view.
Follow the directions as specified by the glass cleaner manufacturer.
CAUTION
Do not scrape or scratch the inside of the window glass. It could damage the thermal filaments and the antenna lines.
When washing the inside of the window glass, use a soft cloth dampened in lukewarm water, gently wiping the thermal filaments and the antenna lines.
Use of glass cleaning products could damage the thermal filaments and the antenna lines.
Cleaning Infotainment Touchscreen:
To remove marks, fingerprints and dust from the infotainment touchscreen use a high quality clean microfiber cloth. Do not use any chemical, household cleaning agents or abrasive materials as the screen surface may be affected. Turn the vehicle off to avoid activating any buttons.
CAUTION
Avoid spilling or splashing liquids onto the touchscreen. It may cause it to malfunction hindering its use.
Make sure the infotainment display and instrument cluster are switched off and cooled down before cleaning.
When cleaning, make sure no liquids enter the space between instrument cluster and panels as this could cause damage.
Cleaning Carpet and Floor Mat:
Regularly clean the carpet and floor mats. Remove any unwanted substances and objects that could interfere with operation of accelerator and brake pedals. Scrub with a weak solution of soap and warm water to remove unwanted ingrained dirt or stains. Replace the floor mats if they show signs of heavy wear.
WARNING
Unsecured or incorrectly positioned mats can interfere with the brake and accelerator pedal that could result in an accident leading to serious injury or death. After cleaning, correctly secure the mats before driving.
Never place a floor mat on top of another on the driver’s side.
Do not overlay additional mats or liners over the floor mats. If using All Weather mats, remove the carpeted floor mats before installing them. Only use floor mats designed to connect to the anchors.
Remove loose dirt particles with a vacuum cleaner on a regular basis so that the material is not permanently damaged by abrasion.

## Maintenance Schedule

Maintenance Schedule Overview
This section outlines the required maintenance for your vehicle.
To ensure economical and safe vehicle operation it is of vital importance that all maintenance work is carried out at the prescribed intervals by trained service technicians. It is recommended that you have your vehicle maintained and repaired by authorized VinFast Service Centers who will complete the scope of work as set out for the required tasks to sustain the road safety, road worthiness, operational reliability and the New Vehicle Limited Warranty.
It is the responsibility of the owner to have the required maintenance performed and to retain records. Depending on each region and market, the vehicle may be programmed to provide service reminders on the vehicle and on the VinFast App before service time.
WARNING
All technical service required to be performed on your vehicle should only be completed by trained and authorized personnel who are certified to work on electric vehicles.
Owners must not attempt to modify, alter or replace any high voltage components, cables or connectors in the vehicle. High Voltage cables are colored orange for easy identification.
A poorly maintained vehicle increases the risk to drivers, passengers and others on the road. If not maintained correctly, there is a danger of subsequent component damage or injury to individuals.
NOTE
The vehicle should not be modified in any way that could adversely affect its performance, safety or durability as it may violate conditions of the warranties covering the vehicle. For details, read the separate Warranty Information handbook provided with the vehicle.
Maintenance Schedule
Service Reminder (if available)
The customer will be reminded when a service is due, via a pop-up message window preceded by     that is displayed on the HMI screen.
The notification that a Service Operation is due is determined by time since the last service and vehicle mileage.
The pop-up window and sound reminder disappear after 8 seconds, but the warning indicator is always on.
Service Technicians will clear the service reminder when the service operation is complete.
Maintenance Schedule Notes
The High Voltage battery (HV) and E-motor cooling system fluid is to be replaced every 10 years or 150,000 km.
The Electric Drive Unit is sealed for life. No maintenance is required.
Additional Maintenance and Care
The cabin air filter may need replacement more frequently if driving in areas with high traffic, poor air quality or high dust levels. The filter may also need to be replaced if there is reduced airflow, window fogging or bad odors.   See > Fluids, Lubricants and Parts > Cabin Air Filter
Regularly clean the interior and exterior of the vehicle to maintain the vehicle’s appearance and condition and to prevent premature degradation of the surfaces.   See > Maintenance > Vehicle Cleaning > Exterior Care   for more information.
Regularly check and maintain the recommended tire pressure to prevent premature wear.   See > Wheels and Tires > Tire Pressure.
NOTE
If it is not possible to leave the vehicle plugged into the charger, it is recommended to use or charge the vehicle at least once a month.
The High Voltage battery does not require owner maintenance. If you have any concerns, please contact a VinFast Service Center.
The on-board diagnostic socket, located under the steering column may only be used by authorized persons at the service center.
CAUTION
Do not allow the vehicle to sit idle for extended periods with a low charging state, otherwise it may not be possible to start or charge the vehicle and may also cause permanent damage to the battery.
Do not park or store the vehicle in areas which may flood, as flooding may damage the battery or other vehicle components.
Rodents can cause significant damage to your vehicle’s electrical wires, air lines and interior trim resulting in expensive repairs. Consequences of the damage may limit your vehicles functions such as, but not limited to, a no start condition or result in fluid leaks. Consider taking steps to discourage rodents such as repellent sprays. Any damage, or related component failures caused by rodents may void the New Vehicle Limited Warranty.

## Parts and Accessories

Parts
Spare Tire (if equipped)
Application
Specification
Remarks
Spare wheel
16X4T
Spare parts only, not carried at the factory
Spare tire
T125 80 R16
CAUTION
The spare tire should not be used for a long time.
The spare tire must be properly placed.
The spare tire needs to be protected against oil corrosion.
When replacing the spare tire, tighten the bolts at the corners so that the bolts are evenly stressed and the tire will not swing when driving.
Pay attention to the speed of the vehicle when using the spare tire, it is best not to exceed 80 kilometers per hour.
Pay attention to the air pressure of the spare tire.
The repaired tires should be placed on the non-driving wheels.
Inflator Kit (if equipped)
Application
Specification
Remarks
Tire Repair Liquid
650 ml
CAUTION
1. Immediately drive after use: In order to fit the tire sealant more comprehensively on the tire, drive quickly for a period of time after use, and try not to stop and avoid stop-and-go.
2. Keep the perforation under the wheel: before injecting tire sealant, press the perforation position on the wheel under the wheel to make contact with the ground to avoid air leakage. If you have to stop for a long time, try to press the perforation under the wheel to slow down the air leakage.
3. Tire sealant is an emergency product. It is used when there is no spare tire, no repair shop, and you have to move on. Please avoid using tire sealant as much as possible.
WARNING
In these cases, tire sealant should not be used.
1. It cannot be repaired when the wound is too large: the tire sealant can only repair the perforation of no more than 5mm, the smaller the wound, the better the effect, and the large area of scratches cannot be repaired.
2. The perforation of the tire wall cannot be repaired: the tire sealant can only be used for the perforation on the tire surface, because the centrifugal force cannot spread it on the tire wall after the tire sealant is injected and during driving
3. Use with caution when the temperature is too low or the altitude is too high: Too low temperature will affect the working effect of tire sealant, and the change of air pressure at high altitude will also affect the work of tire sealant, so use with caution.
4. Use with caution when the tire pressure is not lower than 2bar: It is not recommended to use tire sealant when the tire pressure is not lower than 2bar.
Early Warning Device (if equipped)
The early warning device may be stored in the rear cargo compartment.
If the car must be stopped in an emergency situation, the early warning device must be placed in accordance with local regulations.
Accessories
Genuine VinFast accessories are specifically designed, engineered and tested for the vehicle.
To buy genuine VinFast accessories, please contact VinFast Service Center.
VinFast does not endorse any unauthorized third party products or accessories to be used on the vehicles. VinFast recommends using only genuine accessories.
In a case where the user has opted for a third party accessory, VinFast will not be responsible for performance, repair, replacement, damage, or any adverse effect on the vehicle caused by the product.
NOTE
VinFast will only service genuine accessories.
Depending on your market region, some accessories may not be available.
WARNING
Non-approved parts and accessories, or modifications not approved by VinFast can adversely affect the performance and safety of your vehicle. Any damage caused by the use of or installation of non-approved parts, or by performing non-approved modifications, is not covered by the warranty.
VinFast assumes no responsibility for deaths, personal injuries, or damage that may result.
Parcel Shelf
The parcel shelf is located behind the back seats. It can be used to store small and light objects.
CAUTION
Hinges and the dowels on the parcel shelf are not designed to bear heavy loads, do not apply excessive force while installing or removing the parcel shelf. Using excessive force can break or damage the parcel shelf.
Do not keep heavy objects on the parcel shelf. It may buckle or break in such cases.
WARNING
Do not keep heavy or hard objects on the parcel shelf, in an event of sudden braking, maneuvering, or an accident the objects can come flying and strike an occupant and cause injury.
Cargo Net
Be sure to fix firmly when using.
Floor Mats
Floor Mats are provided for the front and rear foot well areas. The floor mats provide a protective layer to the vehicle’s carpet, and prevents it from getting dirty, wet or moist.
CAUTION
Use floor mats specifically designed for the vehicle and firmly secure them into the carpet. Using a non approved floor mat can lead to problems such as hindering pedal movement or range.
Always make sure that the floor mats are securely anchored.
WARNING
Never use additional mats or floor covers in driver’s foot well, it can reduce the pedal movement or range and can impair pedal operation. An impaired pedal can have adverse effect on safe driving.
Tool Box (with Spare Wheel)
It shall be fixed during use.

# Technical Specifications


## Fluids, Lubricants and Parts

Fluids, Lubricants and Parts Overview
Always supplement the fluids, lubricants and parts according to the type specified in this manual.
The Cabin Air Filter used in the climate control system of the vehicle is a common model.
The Refrigerant used in the AC system is R134a.
The AC Compressor oil is type POE68.
The Brake Fluid type is DOT 4.
The Battery and Motor Coolant is Anti-Freeze Pre-Mixed Coolant AF2000 (ASTM D3306) 50% glycol & 50% Water Mixture.
Transmission Fluid is CASTROL BOT352 B1 BEV.
The low volt battery used in this vehicle is a 12V lead-acid battery.
NOTE
For the recommended fluid, lubricant and part inspection and replacement frequency refer to the Maintenance Schedule.
See >   Maintenance Schedule > Maintenance Schedule Overview.
WARNING
High Voltage and Air Conditioning servicing must be completed by authorized technicians.
It is recommended that your vehicle is serviced by a VinFast Service Center or authorized Service Center using genuine VinFast spare parts.
Use only VinFast approved DOT 4 brake fluid from a clean sealed container. Do not use fluid from an open container that may be contaminated which could result in damage to components, or braking loss, with possible injury.
DOT 4 Brake Fluid is Toxic. Avoid contact with eyes and skin. Refer to safety instruction on fluid container for safe handling and recommendations if contact is made.
Coolant is toxic and can be fatal if swallowed. Prevent coolant from making contact with skin and eyes. If contact occurs, rinse immediately with plenty of water and seek medical attention if required.
Washer fluid can cause irritation to the eyes and skin. If contact occurs rinse immediately with water.
CAUTION
Use of incorrect fluids, lubricants, parts may cause damage to the vehicle.
Brake fluid will damage electrical components, cables, wiring, headlamps, plastic components and painted surfaces. Use rags and suitable containers to prevent fluid coming into contact with any vehicle parts. If brake fluid comes into contact with painted surfaces flush the area immediately with water.

## Vehicle Identification

Vehicle Identification Number
The Vehicle Identification Number – VIN is the legal identification mark of a vehicle.
It is the main identification number provided by VinFast, which is used to register the ownership of the vehicle.
The Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) is located at the following locations:
On the cross-member under the passenger seat. Lift the carpet flap to view  .
The Statutory Plate is placed at the left-hand side B-Pillar (driver side)  .
On the Infotainment Display. See   Infotainment > Setting > System.
Compliance Label
The manufacturer’s certification label (Compliance Label) is located on the left central pillar   (B-Pillar).
The following information is provided on the label:
Brand
Vehicle model
Date of manufacture
Name of manufacturer
Country of manufacture
Vehicle identification number(VIN)
Maximum static power
Rated power
Maximum allowable total mass
Number of passengers
WARNING
Never overload the vehicle. Vehicle overloading can cause the vehicle to loose control which increases the risk of an accident.
Overloading and high speeds can cause tires to overheat, resulting in a burst tire and loss of control.
Overloading can also impair stopping power, damage tires, and shorten the life of the vehicle.
Excessive loading can cause the tires to flex more which will heat up the tire too much. This can cause serious accidents. For more info on weights See >   Vehicle Information > Dimensions and Weights.
Vehicle License Plate
The front and rear license plate as issued by the local authorities should remain securely fixed to the vehicle, clearly visible from a distance and not obscured by any object.
Under no circumstances should a license plate frame be attached to the perimeter of the plate. Doing so may obstruct the camera (if available), radar or parking sensors affecting their functionality.

## Vehicle Information

Dimensions and Weights
The following tables contain key information and specifications relating to the vehicle. All data was accurate at the time of publication. Any changes made post release of this version will be updated on the online version of the owners manual.
NOTE
The vehicle specific data may deviate from these published figures depending on selected options and accessory fitment.
Exterior Dimensions
Item
Description
Measurement (mm)
Vehicle Length
3967
Vehicle Height
1579
Vehicle Width without mirrors
1723
Wheelbase
2514
Ground Clearance (no load)
160
Weights
Description
Weight (Kg)
Payload
325
Curb Weight
1340
Subsystems
Electric Motor
Description
Details
Model / Type
VFCAFB PMSM
Cooling
Liquid Cooling
Operating Voltage (DC)
260 - 480 V
Rated Voltage (DC)
372 V
Max. Torque
135 Nm
Max. Power
100 kW
Performance
Description
Details
Max Speed
130 km/h
Maximum Grade Ability
25.7%
Battery - High Voltage
Description
Details
Type
LFP
Battery capacity
37.23 kWh
Battery - 12V
Description
Details
Rating
45 Ah or 32 Ah depending on variant
Voltage
12V
Brake System
Description
Details
General
Hydraulic booster braking system
Front Brake
Ventilated Disc Brake
Rear Brake
Disc Brake
Parking Brake
Manual
Steering System
Description
Details
Type
Electric Power Steering (EPS)
Air Conditioning System
Description
Details
Refrigerant Type
R134a
Wheels and Tires
Standard Tyre Specification (Factory Fitted)
Size
205/55 R17 (Plus)
Load Index / Speed Rating
95/H (Good Year) or 95/V (Sailun)
Max Load
Front 690 kg
Rear 690 kg
Spare Tyre Specification (if equipped)
Size
T125/80 R16
The recommended tire pressure is listed on the label attached to the driver’ s door frame and is visible when the door is open.   See > Maintenance > Wheels and Tires > Tire Pressure  .

# Vehicle Assistance


## Connected Services

Connected Services Overview
VinFast connected services technology helps bring peace of mind during vehicle ownership enabling you to drive without disturbance, offering various services to support the running of your vehicle and helping you when in need and emergency. Please note that not all services may be available for your vehicle model, market or region. Please contact with a VinFast Service Center to get more information about the availability of services. Connected services may include:
Service Booking Tool
If available, the Suitable process to book an appointment at your local VinFast Service Center for the vehicle’s scheduled maintenance, accessory fitment, body repair or to have a vehicle alert addressed or any problem occurred.
Roadside Assistance
If available, Roadside Assistance is available to you 24*7 and 365 days a year, for the duration of your warranty period. It is also available to speak with roadside service professionals to answer any questions and explain the proper procedure for transporting your vehicle. Specialized roadside support is provided in the event of a vehicle breakdown and any emergency condition.
Emergency Call (e-Call)
If available, e-Call is automatically triggered in the event of an accident or by physical request by the vehicle occupants.
Emergency Call (SOS) (if available)
What is eCall?
Emergency Call (eCall) is a connected service feature that connects the vehicle to a Emergency Call Center﻿ in the event of a vehicle collision or an emergency situation. When an eCall is triggered, critical information about the vehicle status and location are automatically provided to the Emergency Call Center﻿. This assists in ensuring the appropriate emergency response can be provided to the vehicle and its occupants.
How does eCall work?
eCall uses the vehicle’s eSim mobile network to call the call center, automatically activated in case of a severe collision or when manually triggered by the user.
Once the call is connected, the call center will use the information automatically transferred from the vehicle along with additional information provided by the caller to determine the emergency situation and contact the appropriate public rescue services.
eCall﻿ requirements
The system is only capable of operating in areas with a compatible cell phone network and emergency services infrastructure.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿
To activate eCall﻿﻿﻿﻿:
In serious emergency cases such as a severe accident triggering airbag deployment or activation of the front seatbelt pretensioners, etc., the eCall system can activate automatically.
Press and hold the emergency call (SOS) button in the car to activate manually.
To manually activate eCall﻿﻿﻿﻿:
Emergency Call button is present on the front dome lamp.
Press and hold the SOS button about 3 seconds until you hear the announcement ‘Emergency call activated’ and the entertainment screen show an pop-up of the emergency call.
Tap on Cancel to cancel the call﻿ or ﻿press the SOS button again during the countdown
After a 5-second countdown, eCall will be activated, an alert sound will be played, and the screen will switch to an emergency call. Once activated, the emergency call can only be canceled by the call center.
If accidental activation of the eCall occurs, immediately cancel the request or advise the PSAP that it is an accidental call and no assistance is required.
If a standard phone call is active at the time the eCall is triggered, the active call will be terminated to allow the eCall to be placed. During the period when eCall is activated, the vehicle will not receive any incoming calls.
NOTE
eCall operates based on an eSim integrated with the vehicle, so the feature will not work if the eSim does not have a voice package or is out of coverage area. Customers need to purchase a voice package from a network provider to use eCall.
WARNING
Do not wait for eCall automatic assist when you can make it yourself. Press the Emergency Call button immediately to avoid delays that could increase the risk of serious injury or death after a crash.
Be careful when making a manual eCall while driving.

## Vehicle Recovery

Vehicle Jack & Tire Repair
If you happen to get a flat or punctured tire, it can be temporarily repaired or replaced by using the tire repair fluid, or by using the spare tire (if equipped). Otherwise you need to call Roadside Assistance.
NOTE
Damaged tires can affect the performance of the vehicle.
Flat Tire Repair with Inflation Kit (if equipped)
The vehicle is fitted with a tire repair fluid. The tire repair fluid will allow you to stay mobile after experiencing a tire puncture for a short period of time. Please follow instructions below:
WARNING
For safe operation, please read the instruction label located on the tire repair fluid bottle.
Have your tire repaired or replaced as soon as possible.
NOTE
The tire repair fluid can only be used on one flat tire.
This product is effective for repairing punctures with a diameter of less than 6mm. Within this range, puncture objects can be removed to repair, if the puncture holes are larger than this range, do not remove the puncture objects after filling with tire repair fluid. Shake well before using tire sealant.
First remove tire valve cap.
If it is necessary to remove the puncture object and perform repair operation, move the punctured area to the 6‘clock position, and then fill the tire repair fluid into the tire.
Tighten the connecting valve of the tire repair fluid bottle to the tire valve. When using the product at temperature of -40°C to 0 °C, warm the product to a temperature above 0°C before use, it will improve the filling efficiency.
Reinstall the valve cap on the tire.
Put the tire repair kit back to its position.
After driving for 10 km stop and re-examine the tire, if it appears damaged the roadside assistance must be contacted.
Go to a professional tire repair shop as soon as possible. However, do not exceed a total distance of 500 km without having the tire repaired professionally.
If at any time after using this product the tire loses inflation, stop driving and call Roadside Assistance.
NOTE
Accelerate, brake and corner gently.
It is recommended to visit a VinFast Service Center as soon as possible.
WARNING
If the tire repair fluid is splashed on the tire or rim during use, rinse with water or wipe with a cloth. If it gets in your eyes, rinse immediately with water and consult a doctor.
Do not drive with a punctured tire that has not been repaired, even if the puncture has not caused the tire to deflate. A punctured tire can deflate suddenly at any time.
Store this product at temperature between -40°C to 85°C. Do not put it in high temperature places such as the front and rear windshields of the car. Keep it away from any open flames.
Spare Tire Replacement (if equipped)
To Remove Spare Tire:
Lift the Cargo Floor Cover by pulling up on the strap  .
Remove the spare wheel kit  .
Loosen the wheel retainer  .
Remove the spare wheel   from the stowage well  .
NOTE
Put the flat tire somewhere handy, so that the flat tire can be replaced/repaired.
CAUTION
The spare tire provided with the vehicle is for temporary use only. Do not use the spare tire for continuous running.
Do not drive the vehicle above the indicated maximum speed shown on the spare wheel.
WARNING
While using spare wheel, drive slowly, avoid sharp cornering, avoid sudden acceleration, abrupt maneuvering, and sudden braking to ensure safety of the driver and the passengers.
The spare tire is not designed for driving at high speeds. Failure to observe this precaution may lead to an accident causing death or serious injury.
To fit the Spare Tire:
Ensure the vehicle is in a safe location that does not affect normal traffic and work can be undertaken safely. With the vehicle in Neutral (N), turn off the vehicle, and engage the parking brake. If needed, setup the warning triangle and turn on the hazard warning lights.
Remove the lifting jack, jack-handle crank and take out the spare tire, which are all located in the luggage compartment under the luggage stowage cover in the vehicle.
Remove the tire trim cover by hand (if equipped).
Loosen the nut: Use the wheel nut wrench   to turn the nut to the anti-clockwise until it can be turned by hand.
Search the underside of the vehicle to find the jacking points closest to the wheel that you want to replace.
Place the jack under the lifting position of the vehicle.
Match the socket on the jack handle crank with the notch on the jack
Raise the vehicle with the jack. Turn the combination tool clockwise to raise the tire slightly off the ground or until the tire clears the road.
Remove the nut. Remove the wheel by loosening the retaining nut anti-clockwise by hand. Remove the wheel.
Wipe off the dirt on the wheel mounting surface and the brake hub with a clean cloth. Make sure the holes on spare wheel line up with the holes on the hub. Install the spare wheel.
Temporarily turn the nut clockwise by hand and temporarily fix it to the studs to prevent the wheel from falling. Remove dirt and foreign matter from the screw parts of the wheel mounting bolts and nuts.
Lower the jack until the spare wheel touches the ground. Turn the crank handle in anti-clockwise to lower the vehicle.
Tighten the nuts. Use the wheel nut wrench to turn the nut clockwise   according to the order indicated in the figure shown above. Double check each wheel nut. Tightening torque: 110N·m.
Put the jack and tools back to their proper places.
WARNING
Do not exceed the vehicles maximum load carrying capacity.
Do not use a compact spare tire for long periods. Replace or repair original tire as soon as possible.
Make sure that there are no passengers in the vehicle before jacking.
Make sure the jack is stable. Always jack up the car where the surface is firm and leveled.
Position the jack only at the designated jacking points on the vehicle. Failure to do so may cause the jack to slip and cause serious injuries.
Do not work under the vehicle when it is raised.
Only use factory provided jack to lift the vehicle. Never put any object or any part of the body under the vehicle when using the jack.
Do not touch the disc brakes or the areas around the brakes as they can be extremely hot.
Changing wheel
To ensure safety during operation when changing tires, you should pay attention to the following points:
Torque:  110 Nm
The direction of the nuts:  the beveled side of the nut should face inward and toward the rim as shown in the illustration below.
Jump-starting
If the 12V battery is depleted, you can jump start your battery using another vehicle or using a low voltage power supply such as a portable jump starter. If jump starting using another vehicle follow that vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
NOTE
Always ensure that only 12V source is used to jump start the battery.
WARNING
Always read and follow instructions when handling a battery to avoid injury or death.
Wear correct personal protective equipment (PPE) when handling the battery. Failure in following the PPE warning may cause serious injury.
Keep all forms of smoke, flames and sparks away from the battery at all times. Failure in following the warning may cause serious injury.
Do not allow the jumper cables to make contact with each other or any metal surface other than the correct terminals.
Ensure your vehicle is not connected to a high voltage charger when performing a jump-start. Failure to do so may cause serious injury or even death.
Batteries contain sulfuric acid, avoid contact with eyes, skin or clothing.
Hydrogen is present in battery cells, which can ignite.
Never attempt to push start your vehicle.
The vehicle should not be used to jump start another vehicle as this could cause significant damage to your vehicle.
Do not try to jump-start your battery if the outside temperatures are low.
If your vehicle has no 12 volt power, proceed with the following:
Ensure the vehicle is Off and in Neutral (N) and the parking brake is applied.
Open the hood   See > Front and Rear Compartments > Front Hood
Open battery cover
Locate the 12V battery  .
Connect the red jumper cable to the positive (+) battery terminal of your vehicle.
Connect the other end of the red jumper cable to the positive (+) battery terminal of the assisting vehicle.
Connect the black jumper cable to the negative (-) battery terminal of the assisting vehicle.
Connect the other end of black jumper cable to the negative (-) battery terminal to your vehicle.
Start the assisting vehicle first, and then proceed to power on your vehicle.
NOTE
If your vehicle does not start, please contact Roadside Assistance or have the vehicle checked by authorized VinFast dealer.
For safe battery disposal please refer to your countries battery disposal and recycling laws.
Disconnecting jumper cables process:
Disconnect black jumper cable from the negative (-) terminal from your vehicle.
Disconnect the other end of the black negative (-) jumper cable from the assisting vehicle.
Disconnect the red jumper cable from the positive (+) terminal from assisting vehicle.
Disconnect the other end of the red jumper cable from the positive (+) terminal from your vehicle.
Towing (EV)
If your vehicle breaks down and towing is necessary, it is recommended to have it done by a professional towing service.
CAUTION
Never transport the vehicle using any method that is not prescribed by VinFast.
WARNING
Do NOT use your vehicle to tow another vehicle.
If the vehicle has an electrical fault, it may pose a safety hazard. Seek professional assistance immediately and keep away from the vehicle.
Never transport the vehicle with the traction wheels in a position where they can spin. Doing so can lead to significant damage and overheating. In rare cases of extreme overheating may cause the surrounding components to ignite.
Preparing Vehicle to be Towed
The vehicle has a tow eye attachment point in the front of the vehicle. A tow hook is provided with the vehicle and it is stored in the tool box in the rear cargo compartment.
Before towing make sure to disengage the parking brake, put transmission in Neutral (N) and turn off the vehicle.
CAUTION
In order to transport the vehicle, self-loading dollies or tire skates should be used.
WARNING
The vehicle is equipped with high voltage components (See >                                                                        High Voltage Components                                                                    ) that may be damaged in the event of a collision. It is important to assume these components are energized prior to transporting the vehicle.
Always follow high voltage safety precautions (wearing protective gear, etc) until emergency response professionals have evaluated the vehicle and have confirmed that all high voltage systems are no longer operational. Failure to do so may result in serious injury.
To Disengage Parking Brake:
To disengage Parking Brake depress the brake pedal and push the Parking Brake.
Using the Tow Eye/Hook:
How to fit Front Tow Hook
Locate the tow hook cover  on the front bumper and press the side marked with the arrow to open the cover. Use your hand or a small plastic-tipped tool to pry open the opposite side and remove the cover.
Install the tow hook  to the attachment point by turning it clockwise into the hole until it is fully secured.
After using, to remove the tow hook rotate anti-clock wise and carefully install the tow hook cover.
CAUTION
Before pulling the vehicle, make sure the tow eye/hook is securely tightened.
Approved Towing Methods
VinFast recommends getting professional help for towing and follow proper towing procedure to prevent damage to the vehicle.
A flatbed truck or similar transport vehicle is the recommended method of transporting the vehicle. The vehicle can face either direction when using a flatbed truck.
Towing the Vehicle:
Attach the tow eye/hook in front of the vehicle.
Attach the winch cable to the tow eye/hook.
Put the vehicle in Neutral (N).
Disengage the parking brake.
Turn off the vehicle.
Pull the vehicle slowly onto the flatbed truck.
Vehicle must be secured properly to the truck bed. Secure the vehicle’s wheels using eight-point tie-down method.
CAUTION
Securing the tie-down straps to the chassis, suspension or other parts of the vehicle’s body may cause damage to the vehicle.
Metal parts of the tie down can damage paint and other finishing on the vehicle, avoid such contacts.
Do not place tie-down straps over the vehicle’s body or through the wheels.
If the vehicle cannot be transported in a flatbed truck, then wheel lifts must be used and, if possible, dollies to ensure that front wheels are off of the ground. The vehicle can be towed facing forward, so that the front wheels are lifted. This method may only be used for a maximum of 35 miles (55km), and must not exceed the manufacturer speed rating of the dollies.
Follow the steps as recommended by the professional to load the vehicle on the dolly and wheel lift.

## Contact

VinFast Customer Care
VinFast Customer Care representatives are available Monday to Sunday 24 hours a day to assist with any of your vehicle needs. They can be contacted on:
VinFast Customer Care: 1900 23 23 89

# Additional Information


## Reference

Data Storage and Processing
Your vehicle is fitted with electronic control units. Data is processed and generated by control units based on inputs from sensors. Your vehicle’s control units are used to keep the vehicle safe, support you while driving (driver assistance systems), and to enable convenience and infotainment functions.
In certain circumstances, the data generated or processed by control units can be considered personal data under the law. Depending on the vehicle data available, this data may reveal information about your driving behavior, your location, or your route, as well as your usage patterns.
For more information about VinFast’s personal data protection policy, please visit:   https://vinfastauto.com/vn_vi/dieu-khoan-phap-ly   or scan QR code below:

## VinFast eStore

VinFast eStore Overview
VinFast eStore (also known as VF eStore) is a smart connected platform integrated into VinFast electric vehicles. This system creates a technology ecosystem that allows users to interact with their vehicle easily through applications and internet connectivity.
VF eStore is an in-vehicle technology ecosystem that allows you to:
Manage your vehicle
Control your vehicle remotely
Use smart and entertainment features
VF eStore Packages
Depending on the vehicle model, the available VF eStore service packages may vary.
For detailed information about VF eStore, please refer to::   https://shop.vinfastauto.com/vn_vi/vinfast-connect.html
Remote Control
The Remote Control feature allows users to manage and operate their vehicle anytime, anywhere using their smartphone. You can monitor the vehicle status, perform actions such as locking/unlocking doors, turning on the air conditioner, and receive security alerts quickly and conveniently.
NOTE
Depending on the vehicle model, the available remote control functions may vary.
Usage Requirements
Customers must activate a VF eStore package that supports the Remote Control feature.
For details, refer to:   VF eStore | VinFast
Users must download the VinFast App and update it to the latest version. To download the VinFast App, please scan the QR codes below:
Androi
IOS
The vehicle must be updated to the latest FRS version that supports VF eStore.
How It Works
After activating a VF eStore package on the vehicle, users can control certain vehicle functions through the VinFast App on their smartphone.
Remote Control Features
Remote Control
Users can remotely control the following features (*):
Lock/Unlock the vehicle
Open the trunk
Open the windows
Control the air conditioner
Turn on the vehicle lights
Sound the horn
Activate Camp Mode
Set Charge Limit (SOC) (if available)
Stop Charging (if available)
(*) Note: Depending on the vehicle model, the available remote control functions may vary.
Notifications and Alerts
Anti-theft alerts: Similar to the VinFast App, when unauthorized vehicle movement or door opening is detected, a notification will be displayed to the driver.
Vehicle notifications: Users will receive basic notifications and vehicle status updates similar to those available in the VinFast App.
In addition, users will receive notifications related to battery charging status, battery information, and the estimated remaining driving range.
Remote Control via Smartwatch
The Remote Control via Smartwatch feature enables users to control and monitor their vehicle remotely directly from their smartwatch in a fast and convenient manner. It allows users to perform basic vehicle operations without opening their phone, such as locking/unlocking the vehicle, opening the lifgate, turning on the air conditioner, activating the lights or horn, and more. Users can also receive important notifications and alerts from the vehicle, including anti-theft alerts, vehicle status updates, battery information, and estimated remaining driving range.
NOTE
Depending on the vehicle model, the available remote control functions may vary.
Usage Requirements
Customers must activate a VF eStore package that supports the Remote Control feature.
For details, refer to:   VF eStore| VinFast
Supported operating systems: Wear OS and watchOS.
The smartwatch must be connected to the phone via Bluetooth before use.
Users need to download the VinFast app and update it to the latest version.
The vehicle must be updated to the latest FRS version with VF Connect available.
NOTE
Users should wear the smartwatch to enable features and receive notifications.
How It Works
After activating the VF Connect package on the vehicle.
Connect the phone to the smartwatch via Bluetooth.
For Wear OS, download the VinFast app from the supported app store.
Check the VinFast app—if the status shows “Connected,” the smartwatch can now be used to control the vehicle.
Recommended distance for the smartwatch to receive signals from the vehicle: less than 10 meters.
Smartwatch Features
Remote Control
Users can remotely control the following features (*):
Lock/Unlock the vehicle
Open the trunk
Open the windows
Control the air conditioner
Turn on the vehicle lights
Sound the horn
Activate Camp Mode
Set Charge Limit (SOC) (if available)
Stop Charging (if available)
(*) Note: Depending on the vehicle model, the available remote control functions may vary.
Notifications and Alerts
Anti-theft alerts: Similar to the VinFast App, when unauthorized vehicle movement or door opening is detected, a notification will be displayed on the smartwatch to alert the driver.
Vehicle notifications: Users will receive basic notifications and vehicle status updates similar to those available in the VinFast App.
In addition, users will receive notifications related to battery charging status, battery information, and the estimated remaining driving range.
Advanced Virtual Assistant
The Advanced Virtual Assistant is one of the VF eStore features that provides users with an intelligent, convenient, and personalized interactive experience. With its ability to understand and respond flexibly, the virtual assistant makes using the vehicle easier and more modern.
Usage Requirements
Customers must activate a VF eStore service package that supports Advanced Virtual Assistant features to use the application ecosystem.
The vehicle must have a stable Internet connection (Wi-Fi or mobile data).
Key Features
Proactively provides reminders and personalized suggestions based on the user’s habits, context, and preferences.
Advanced vehicle control: Interact with the vehicle naturally, quickly, and accurately.
Personalized experience: Supports voice recognition and customized settings tailored to the user’s preferences and usage needs.
Battery Care
Battery Care is a feature within the VF eStore smart services suite that helps users monitor battery health and identify usage behaviors that may affect the lifespan of an electric vehicle battery.
By analyzing real-world vehicle operating data, the feature provides detailed insights into battery status, charging behavior, driving behavior, and parking behavior. This enables users to proactively adjust their usage habits and perform battery maintenance or warranty services when necessary.
Key feature:
Monitor battery operating parameters and health status.
Detect behaviors that may reduce battery lifespan.
Identify early signs of battery abnormalities.
Adjust usage habits to optimize battery performance and longevity.
Reduce maintenance, repair, and battery replacement costs throughout vehicle ownership.
Usage Requirements
To use this feature, users must ensure that:
The vehicle has been updated to the latest FRS version.
The VinFast App has been updated to the latest version.
A Smart Connect Upper/Pro/Premium/Prime service package within the VF eStore smart services ecosystem has been activated.
Data sharing (Data Privacy) has been enabled on the vehicle.
User Guide
Accessing the Feature
Open the VinFast App.
Select Battery Care from the home screen.
Monitoring Battery Parameters
On the overview screen, users can monitor battery-related information, including:
Battery temperature.
Ambient temperature.
Battery technical specifications, such as:
Battery cell type.
Battery manufacturer.
Internal resistance.
Battery current.
Other technical parameters.
For each parameter, users can tap the (!) icon to view:
An explanation of the parameter.
Safe operating thresholds.
Warning thresholds that require attention.
Recommended maintenance and usage practices.
Monitoring Charging Behavior
Under the Charging Behavior section, users can view statistics related to charging habits that may affect battery lifespan, including:
requency of AC charging and DC charging.
Frequency of charging when the battery level is below 20%.
Frequency of charging when the battery level is above 80%.
Detailed information about the most recent charging session.
These insights help users identify and adjust suboptimal charging habits to extend battery lifespan.
Monitoring Driving and Parking Behavior
Under the Driving & Parking Behavior section, users can review vehicle operating habits that may impact battery health, including:
Frequency of aggressive acceleration.
Frequency of hard braking.
Frequency of parking the vehicle with a battery level below 10%.
Frequency of parking the vehicle with a battery level above 90%.
Frequency of parking the vehicle in environments with temperatures above 40°C.
These statistics help users better understand how their driving and parking habits affect battery longevity and make appropriate adjustments.
Monitoring Alerts and Recommendations
The system displays alerts or recommendations when it detects:
Battery parameters exceeding recommended thresholds.
Non-optimal charging behavior.
Driving or parking habits that may negatively impact battery lifespan.
Users are encouraged to follow the system’s recommendations to maintain battery performance and maximize battery lifespan throughout vehicle use.
Safe Driving
Feature Description
Safe Driving is a feature within the Safe Driving solution suite on the VinFast App that helps users monitor, evaluate, and improve their driving habits through a driving behavior scoring system.
The system analyzes vehicle operation data and evaluates driving safety based on seven key driving behaviors:
Hard braking
Aggressive steering
Following too closely
Speeding
Night driving
Autopilot forced disengagement
Not wearing a seat belt
Based on the collected data, the system calculates a driving score, provides historical performance records, and offers recommendations to help users develop safer driving habits.
This feature is currently supported on VinFast commercial vehicle models capable of providing vehicle operation data to the VinFast App.
Usage Requirements
To use this feature, users must ensure that:
The vehicle has been updated to the latest FRS version.
The VinFast App has been updated to the latest version.
Data sharing (Data Privacy) has been enabled on the vehicle so that the system can collect and analyze driving data.
User Guide
Accessing the Feature
Open the VinFast App.
Select Safe Driving.
Access the Safe Driving screen.
Viewing the Overall Driving Score
The overview screen displays:
An average driving score on a 100-point scale.
A score calculated based on the evaluation results of the seven driving behaviors.
A safety rating indicator classified into the following levels:
Dangerous
Average
Safe
Viewing Score History
Users can review their driving score history by:
Week
Month
Year
Historical data helps users assess trends in improving or changing driving behaviors over time.
Viewing Detailed Driving Behaviors
Under the Behavior section, users can view:
Scores for each driving behavior.
The number of corresponding violations.
Statistical charts over time.
The monitored driving behaviors include:
Hard braking
Aggressive steering
Following too closely
Speeding
Night driving
Autopilot forced disengagement
Not wearing a seat belt
Reviewing Safe Driving Recommendations
Under the Behavior section, the system provides personalized recommendations and safe driving guidance based on actual driving performance.
These recommendations help users:
Reduce the frequency of risky driving behaviors.
Improve their driving score.
Develop safer and more efficient driving habits.